36

[23.12] Engineer units may be replaced even if
eliminated. Engineer units are rebuilt according to
the schedule in Case 20.3.

[23.13] The Commonwealth has two units of the
New Zealand RR Construction Battalion. These
are used so/ely for the construction and repair of
Railroads. The 18.A. Road Construction unit is
used solely for Road work.

[23.14] Headquarters units with a letter E next to
their Stacking Points have Engineering capability
(see Section 24.0) but otherwise they are treated
like any other HQ unit.

[23.2] USES OF ENGINEERS

[23.21] The cost for a unit that is stacked with any
Engineer unit (or HQ unit with Engineering
capability) to enter an Enemy Minefield is reduced
to six CP’s for Motorized units and three CP’s for
non-motorized units (see Terrain Effects Chart,
Case 8.37).

[23.22] If an.Engineer unit or a HQ with Engineer
capability remains in an Enemy Minefield hex for
an entire Operations Stage without expending any
CP’s, that Minefield is removed at the end of the
Operations Stage.

[23.23] Engineer units and HQ’s with Engineer
capability may help to build fortifications, rebuild
fortifications and bombed roads, build, rebuild
and dismantle Temporary Repair Facilities, and
build and rebuild Railroads and Air Facilities (see
Section 24.0).

[23.24] If an unpinned Engineer Battalion or HQs
with Engineer capability is attached to units moun-
ting a Close Assault against units in a fortified hex
(not a Major City hex), the Assault Differential
column may be adjusted one in favor of the
assaulting units.

[23.25] In addition to the above, Engineers and
HQ’s with Engineer capability have a variety of
minor capabilities spread throughout the rules.
Moreover, most of the above rules are covered in
other Sections (e.g., Minefields).

[23.26] Engineer units may not build or destroy
‘bridges’ (i.e., River/wadi crossings) nor affect
escarpments.

[24.0] CONSTRUCTION
GENERAL RULE:

Fortifications, minefields, air facilities, repair
facilities, roads, railroads and supply dumps all
come into existence (for the most part), through
construction. Construction entails the use of man-
power under the leadership of Engineers, along
with the expenditure of time and supplies. Con-
struction occurs in the Construction Segment of
the Organization Phase (within the Operations
Stage), and it may be affected by weather. Units
involved in construction may not expend any
Capability Points during an Operations Stage;
otherwise that construction is halted.

CASES:

[24.1] HOW CONSTRUCTION WORKS

[24.11] Ali construction is initiated and under-
taken in the Construction Segment of the
Organization Phase within each Operations Stage.
Construction is always completed at the beginning
of the Construction Segment of a succeeding
Operations Stage, depending on how long the con-
struction takes. The number of Operations Stages
required to complete construction are listed on the
Construction Chart (24.17). These Operations
Stages include the Operations Stage in which con-
struction is started.

[24.12] If units involved in construction expend
any Capability Points during the Operations Stage
construction is halted and that Operations Stage
does not count towards Construction. Units in-
volved in construction do not affect Road/Track
Stacking Limits.

[24.13] In order to complete construction of a
given item the Player must have the necessary sup-
plies on hand in the hex and actually expend them
(listed on the Construction Table and described in
the following Cases). Such supplies must begin the
Construction Segment in the given hex; they are
expended during the Construction Segment (even
if the units involved in construction are later forc-
ed to move or fight).

[24.14] In addition to supplies expended for con-
struction, units involved in construction expend all
normal supplies as required (Stores, Fuel, etc.)

[24.15] No more than one project may be under
construction by a given unit at any one time, and
units involved in construction are subject to all
stacking rules.

[24.16] A unit may always voluntarily cease con-
struction without any penalty other than that con-
struction is halted.

[24.17] Construction Chart
(see Charts and Tables)

[24.18] Demolition Chart
(see Charts and Tables)

[24.2] ADVERSE EFFECTS
ON CONSTRUCTION

[24.21] During Hot Weather each construction
site requires the expenditure of 10 Water Points in
addition to any other requirements. —

[24.22] No construction may occur in a hex af-
fected by a sandstorm or a rainstorm. This does
not stop construction entirely; it only prohibits
that Operations Stage from counting towards con-
struction time costs. However, if a unit involved in
construction leaves a hex during a sandstorm or
rainstorm, construction is considered to have stop-
ped completely and must start over again from the
beginning.

[24.23] Units pinned by artillery fire or air bom-
bardment may not engage in construction. The ef-
fects,of this Case are similar to those of Case
24.22.

[24.24] The presence of Friendly units not engag-
ed in construction has no effect on the process of
Construction, Remember the stacking limits,
however.

[24.3] CONSTRUCTING MINEFIELDS
[24.31] Minefields may be constructed by any

Engineering unit (or Commonwealth’ HQ
Engineers). Engineers may construct regular
minefields and/or dummy minefields. The

minefield counters indicate whether the minefield
is real or dummy on the reverse sides of the
counter.

[24.32] A minefield requires one full Operations
Stage to construct (lay), regardless of whether it is
a dummy or an actual minefield. Thus, a minefield
started at the beginning of one Operations Stage
will be completed by the beginning of the Con-
struction Segment of the next Operations Stage.

[24.33] In order to lay a regular minefield the
Player must have an Engineering unit, 15 Store
Points and 15 Ammunition Points in the hex. The
supplies are expended at the start of construction.
To indicate a minefield under construction, place
an Under Construction marker in the hex.

(24.34] A dummy minefield is constructed in the
same way as a regular minefield, except that the

Player expends no Ammunition Points and only
three Stores Points.

[24.35] Minefields may be constructed in clear,
sand/gravel, or rough hexes. Only one Minefield
(real or dummy) may be constructed in any one
hex. Minefields may not be constructed in major
cities.

[24.36] Minefields may not be constructed in
Enemy-controlléed hexes,

[24.37] See Section 26.0 for the effects of
Minefields.

[24.38] If an Engineer unit or HQ unit with
Engineering capability spends an entire Opera-
tions Stage in a hex with a real minefield (Enemy
or Friendly), that Minefield is removed (see Case
23.22). Dummy minefields are removed upon
revelation of their status.

[24.4] CONSTRUCTING
FORTIFICATIONS

[24.41] Fortifications are strongly protected
defensive emplacements requiring the laying of
cement-work, etc. Fortifications are represented
by counters as being either Level 1 or Level 2. In
additions, major cities have built-in Fortification
Levels which may be rebuilt by Engineer units

when they are destroyed.

[24.42] In order to construct one Level of for-
tification, a Player needs one unit (of any size)
with Engineering capability p/us one Infantry bat-
talion with three or more TOE Strength Points.
These units must spend three complete Construc-
tion Segments in the hex under Construction (in-
dicated by an Under Construction marker)
without expending any Capability Points. At the
beginning of the fourth Construction Segment, the
Fortification Level is complete, and a Fortifica-
tion Level counter (with the correct level indicated)
is placed in the hex.

[24.43] In addition to Case 24.42, the Player must
have present at the beginning of Construction 30
Stores Points. These Stores are then expended and
Construction begins.

[24.44] Construction of new fortifications may
take place in any hex except mountain, salt marsh,
desert, major city, and delta. Fortifications may
not be build from scratch in an Enemy Zone of
Control.

[24.45] Fortification Levels — as well as Levels of
major cities — that have been destroyed by air
bombardment or artillery barrage may be rebuilt,
using the same guidelines as in Cases 24.42 and
24.43, The major difference is that the rebuilding
(or repairing) of fortifications may take place in an
Enemy Zone of Control.

[24.46] No other construction — of any type —
may take place in a hex which is undergoing for-
tification construction.

[24.47] Once emplaced, fortifications may not be
voluntarily removed. They may be reduced only by
air bombardment or artillery barrage. No other
type of combat affects fortifications, although
fortifications affect combat (see Section 25.0).

[24.48] Fortifications may be built or rebuilt one
Level at a time. Levels of a major city may not be
built or rebuilt above their original Level of two,
with the exception of Alexandria and Cairo, which

- are Level 3 cities.

[24.5] ROAD CONSTRUCTION

The Via Balbia is the major — actually the only —
road that runs through North Africa. It provides
the sole communications link and is of vital impor-

tance to both Players. At the beginning of the war,
several sections of the Via Balbia were incomplete
or in such a state of disrepair as to be nonexistent.
Such stretches are noted on the game-map as un-
finished roads. In addition, there is a similar
stretch on game-map B that avoids the coastal port
of Derna. This is the Derna Bypass, built by the
Axis to avoid Allied coastal shelling by off-shore
bombardment. Finally, the track running between
Mersa Matruh and Siwa was tarred over and con-
verted to a road by the Ist SA Road Construction
Battalion. All unfinished road sections may be
built by construction; any road hexes bombed and
destroyed may be rebuilt.

[24.51] Only those sections of road that appear as
unfinished road hexes (see Terrain Key on map)
may be built into actual road hexes, Neither Player
may invent new stretches of road. Any road hex
(actual) that has been destroyed by bombing may
be rebuilt by construction.

[24.52] Unfinished road hexes and destroyed road
hexes (noted by markers for destroyed roads) are
treated as tracks for all purposes.

[24.53] There are several ways to Build or Rebuild
Road hexes:

a. Any Infantry Battalion of 3 TOE Strength
Points or more may build or rebuild one road
hex per Construction Stage; or

b. Any Engineer company or HQ with Engineer
ing capability may build or rebuild one road hex
per Construction Segment; or

c. Any Engineer battalion alone, or any Engineer
company/HQ plus 3 TOE Infantry unit may
build or rebuild three road hexes per Construc-
tion Segment. The three hexes include the hex
the units are in plus any two road hexes adjacent
to that hex.

[24.54] For each road hex to be built or rebuilt the
Player must expend at the beginning of the Con-
struction Segment two Stores Points that are in the
same hex as the constructing units.

[24.55] No Enemy-controlled road hex may be
built or rebuilt.

[24.56] The Player may use an End of Road
marker to indicate how far construction of new
road has extended. When an entire stretch is
finished, Players should simply note the fact
somewhere.

[24.6] BUILDING AND
REPAIRING RAILROADS

There are two railroad lines on the game-maps: the
rail complex that crisscrosses the Nile Delta and
extends towards Mersa Matruh (eventually to be
completed at Tobruk) plus a defunct Benghazi-
Barce line. The latter has been included for
historical purposes only and may never be used for
any reason.

[24.61] The only units that may build railroads
(see Case 8.47) are the two New Zealand railroad
construction companies (the 10th and the 13th).
The NZRRC companies are considered engineer
companies, but they may be used only for RR
work. All engineer battalions and companies, in-
cluding the NZRRC — and Commonwealth (only)
HQ with Engineering capabilities — may repair
destroyed track.

[24.62] One NZRRC company requires two
OpStages to build one hex of new track. Two
NZRRC companies in the same hex can build one
hex of new track in one OpStage.

[24.63] Each Engineer Unit may rebuild three
destroyed railroad hexes per Construction Seg-
ment. The unit may rebuild the hex it occupies plus
any two hexes adjacent to the Engineer unit.

[24.64] For each Railroad hex to be built or
rebuilt there must be present with the Engineer
unit —- and actually expended in the Construction
Segment — one Store Point.

[24.65] No Enemy-controlled or Enemy-occupied
railroad hex may be built or rebuilt.

[24.66] Railroad hexes may be destroyed by air
bombardment or artillery barrage. They may also
be destroyed by an Engineer unit, a HQ with
Engineer capability, or an Infantry unit with three
or more TOE Strength Points, if such a unit
spends one complete OpStage in the hex to be
destroyed without expending any Capability
Points. Destroyed railroad hexes are indicated by
placing a Destroyed RR Hex marker on the hex in
question.

[24.67] The Alexandria-Mersa Matruh-Tobruk
line may be constructed in only one specific direc-
tion. Construction must start from the last com-
pleted hex extending from Mersa Matruh and
grow westward towards Tobruk. No hex may be
skipped, and a Railhead marker is provided to in-
dicate the extent of construction. Unbuilt railroad
hexes simply do not exist; they serve no function
until actually built.

[24.7] CONSTRUCTING AIR
FACILITIES (Air Game Only)

(24.71] Air facilities include airfields, air landing
strips, flying boat basins, and flying boat alighting
areas. The use of these is covered in the Air Rules.

[24.72] Airfields and flying boat basins may be
constructed only by Engineer battalions. Air lan-
ding strips and flying boat alighting areas may be
constructed by Engineer battalions, Engineer
companies, or Squadron Ground Support Units.

[24.73] Air fields or strips may be constructed in
clear terrain, rough, major cities, desert or
sand/gravel hexes. They may not be constructed in
an Enemy-controlled hex. Flying boat facilities
may be constructed only in coastal hexes,
regardless of the terrain.

[24.74] Airfields and Flying Boat Basins require
three Construction Segments to complete, while
air landing strips and flying boat alighting areas
require one Construction Segment to complete.

[24.75] The supply requirements for building new
air facilities are listed on the Construction Chart
(24.17).

(24.76] Air facilities may lose their effectiveness
— or rather their capacity to maintain squadrons
— or be destroyed entirely through bombing. Air
landing strips, and flying boat facilities (both)
must be built from scratch if destroyed. Airfields
are rebuilt Capacity Level by Capacity Level (see
Air Rules, Case 36.12). The cost and time to
tebuilt one Capacity Level of an airfield is the
same as it costs to build an air landing strip. Only
one Level may be rebuilt at a time.

[he] [=] fate] [ae

T Cc HH R

[24.77] Air facilities are represented by counters,
each of which is lettered for identification pur-
poses. When an air facility is constructed, the
Player simply puts the corresponding counter on
the game-map,. There are no hexes in which air
facilities are printed (except for Case 24.78); they
must all be constructed, unless provided by the in-
itial set-up for a scenario.

[24.78] A number of air facilities are, in essence,
printed on the game-map. Such facilities do not
need air facility counters. Each hex in Cairo is con-
sidered an airfield. In addition, air facilities for
Malta are printed on the Malta map. There are

also air facilities in the Tripoli-Tunis boxes,
Commonwealth off-map bases (such as Deversoir;
see map BE), Crete, Italy, and Sicily. The use of
these facilities is covered in various sections of the
Air Rules.

[24.8] CONSTRUCTING REPAIR
FACILITIES

[24.81] Only temporary repair facilities may be
constructed as new; all major repair facilities are
already in existence (see Case 22.31). Both tem-
porary and major repair facilities may have their
effectiveness reduced or neutralized by air bom-
bardment and/or artillery barrage. Temporary
facilities may be destroyed by the presence of
Enemy units; major facilities may not be so
destroyed.

[24.82] All Engineer units — including HQ’s —
may build, rebuild or dismantle temporary repair
facilities or rebuild major facilities.

[24.83] Construction of a new temporary repair
facility entails the presence of one Engineer unit of
any size for three Construction Segments, along
with the expenditure of 250 Store Points and 150
Fuel Points (most of which represent machinery,
lubricants, etc.). All supplies must be present at
the start of construction and are expended im-
mediately.

[24.84] Repair facilities in major cities that have
had their City Levels reduced by bombardment
(see Case 22.35) may be rebuilt by first rebuilding
the Level of the city (see Case 24.4) and then ex-
pending 50 Stores Points and 30 Fuel Points, along
with the presence of an Engineer unit spending one
Construction Segment in the hex.

[24.85] A temporary repair facility may be built in
any major city hex or in any village hex. However,
no Player may ever have mre than two temporary
repair facilities at any one time.

[24.86] Temporary repair facilities may be
dismantled. It takes one unit with Engineering
capability one Construction Segment to dismantle
a temporary repair facility. When the facility is
dismantled, the Player has 120 Store Points and 25
Fuel Points in that hex. The dismantled facility ex-
ists no more, and if a new one is to be built, it must

_ be started from scratch.

[24.87] Temporary repair facilities may not be
Constructed ine an Enemy-controlled hex.
However, all Repair Facilities may be rebuilt or
dismantled in an Enemy-controlled hex.

[24.88] A temporary repair facility that is in the
process of being dismantled may not be used..

[24.9] CONSTRUCTING
SUPPLY DUMPS AND
DUMMY SUPPLY DUMPS

A supply dump is a place where supplies (in the
Land Game, ammo and fuel only) are stored ina
quasi-organized fashion (see Case 54.1). A supply
dump may be constructed by having any one TOE
Strength Point of any type expend three Capability
Points and 20 Store Points (Logistics Game only)
in a hex. A dummy supply dump may be con-
structed in a hex with an expenditure of three
Capability Points only. That hex may then be
designated a supply dump (dummy or not as ap-
propriate).

Note: Supplies may be placed in a hex not contain-
ing a constructed supply dump. The only restric-
tion on the use of such supplies is that trucks ‘‘in
convoy’? may not load such supplies. Players
should keep track (obviously) of the presence of
supplies in a hex with no supply dump. However,
there are restrictions on the maximum number of
points that may be so deployed—see the Logistics
Game.

37

38

[25.0] FORTIFICATIONS
GENERAL RULE:

All major cities in the game are considered for-
tifications. In addition, Players may construct for-
tifications (see Case 24.4). Fortifications are
available in levels, reflective of the depth and
strength of the fortifications. Most fortifications
and cities have two possible levels, but Cairo and
Alexandria have three possible levels. Fortifica-
tions give defensive benefits to units in that hex.

CASES: ~

[25.1] FORTIFICATION LEVELS

[25.14] Each level of *Fortification gives an in-
creasing defensive benefit to units in that hex (see
T.E.C., Case 8.37).

[25:12] Each major city on the game-map is a
Level 2 fortification. Cairo and. Alexandria are
Level 3 fortifications. Villages are not fortifica-
tions.

[25.13] Constructed fortifications are tither Level
1 or Level 2. Fortifications can never be con-
structed higher than Level 2, except in Cario or
Alexandria. (Fortification counters have two
sides, representing each level.)

[25.14] Fortifications may be reduced in Level
strength by air bombardment (see Case 39.37) or
artillery barrage (Case 12.5). No other type of
combat affects fortifications. Reduced fortifica-
tions may be rebuilt.

[25.15] Reduced Fortification Levels may affect
the rate of repair of a repair facility (see Case
22.35).

[25.16] Major cities and fortifications may be
reduced to a Fortification Level of zero. (Note:
The ‘‘zero”’ level has no effect in the Land Game,
except to mean that the fortification can be more
easily rebuilt. However, see the Strafing Table,
Case 40.8).

[25.2] EFFECTS OF FORTIFICATIONS

[25.21] Fortifications have no effect on move-
ment or breakdown for any units.

[25.22] The effects on various combat types for a
unit defending in a fortified hex are summarized
on the Terrain Effects Chart, Case 8.37.

[25.23] Air bombardment and strafing of land
units (combat or otherwise), trucks, flak and supp-
ly dumps in fortifications is treated the same as ar-
tillery barrage in terms of column adjustments,
with one exception: air bombardment does not af-
fect any of the above items while in a Level 3 City.
That city must be reduced to Level 2 for air
bombardment to have any effect.

[25.24] A/l units in Level 3 cities ignore a// pinned
results from any type of combat.

[26.0] MINEFIELDS

GENERAL RULE:

in no place did the mine receive more notoriety
than in the Libyan/Egyptian desert. Used sparing-
ly in the early part of the war, minefields became a
standard defensive feature by 1942. By El Ala-
mein, they were ubiquitous. Minefields were more
of a hindrance than a danger, at least on an opera-
tional level. (On tactical level it’s a different ques-
tion.) Therefore, in CNA minefields are obstacles;
they rarely cause casualties. Units pay increased
Capability Point costs to enter minefields.

ee

CASES:
[26.1] TYPES OF MINEFIELDS

(26.11] There are two types of minefields: dummy
and real, All minefield counters have the same
front side; the reverse side of the counter reveals
whether it is real or dummy.

[26.12] In moving units there is also a difference
between Friendly minefields — paths through
which are known (hopefully) —.and Enemy

minefields.

[26.13] Real minefields may be removed by hav-
ing an Engineer unit — or a unit with Engineer
capability — spend one full Operations Stage in
the hex (i.e., the Engineer must start the Opera-
tions Stage in the hex with the minefield). If it ex-
pends no Capability Points on movement and re-
mains in the hex at the end of the Stage, the mine-
field is removed. This applies to both Friendly and
Enemy minefields.

[26.14] Dummy Minefields are removed at the
end of any Movement Segment in which an Enemy
unit expends the Capability Points to move into
that hex (see Case 26.23).

[26.15] A Friendly minefield is flipped over to
reveal its type (real or dummy) immediately upon
being entered by an Enemy unit.

[26.2] EFFECTS OF MINEFIELDS

[26.21] The movement costs to enter a minefield
are in the Terrain Effects Chart, 8.37. It should be
pointed out that a motorized unit or vehicle enter-
ing an Enemy minefield expends Capability Points
proportional to its given Capability Point
Allowance, Thus, an artillery unit would expend
15 Capability Points to enter an Enemy minefield.

[26.22] All movement costs are in addition to the
terrain in the hex. Note: Units without Engineers
will expend points far over their CPA.

[26.23] The costs to enter a dummy minefield are
the same as those for a real minefield. The only
difference is that once a unit enters an Enemy
dummy minefield, that minefield is revealed.
However, it is not removed until the end of that
Movement Phase of the Operations Stage. Thus,
any units that move into that dummy minefield in
that Phase of Movement still pay the cost to entera
minefield.

[26.24] Engineer units and combat units stacked
with an Engineer battalion or Commonwealth
HQs with Engineering capacity pay only four ad-
ditional Capability Points to enter an Enemy
minefield, rather than their listed cost. Engineer
units and combat units stacked with an Engineer
battalion pay no extra cost to enter a Friendly
minefield.

[26.25] Whenever a vehicle (tank, truck, etc.)
enters an Enemy minefield not accompanied by an
Engineer battalion, or Commonwealth HQs with
Engineering capacity, there is a possibility that the
minefield will destroy some of the vehicles. The
moving Player rolls one die for each battalion-
sized (or less) combat unit and/or for all 2nd and
3rd line trucks. If the Player rolls a 5 or 6, the
mines have destroyed one TOE Strength Point of
tanks or motorized infantry, or one unattached
Truck Point.

[26.26] On any anti-tank or close assault combat
in which the attacking units are in an Enemy mine-
field or in which there is a Close Assault against an
Enemy unit in an Enemy Minefield, the defending
Player adjusts all columns one in his favor. This
does not apply to artillery bombardment.

[27.0] DESERT RAIDERS &
COMMANDOS

COMMENTARY:

On an operational level, Desert Raiders (The Long
Range Desert Group and Die Sonderkommando
Almasy) had little effect on the war. However, the
designers felt that they would be missed in a
simulation of this magnitude — and they doadda
lot of fun to the game. Desert Raiders are useful
for ‘‘annoyance’’ raids: blowing supply dumps,
attacking convoys, etc. A bit of honesty is required
for this rule.

CASES:

[27.1] THE LONG RANGE
DESERT GROUP

[27.11] The Commonwealth desert raiders consist
of two units of the Long Range Desert Group
(LRDG). These are represented by two LRDG
counters, There may never be more than two
LRDG units in play at any one time.

[27.12] LRDG units must be formed from other
units, already in play, that have reached their max-
imum Morale Level through training. Untrained
units may never be used to form LRDG’s.

[27.13] LRDG’s are formed from Recce and Ar-
mored Car TOE Strength Points — and only from
these type of units. To form an LRDG, the Player,
in his Organization Phase, simply removes the
TOE Strength Point from the Reece/AC unit and
places an LRG unit on the game-map in its place.
Once formed, an LRDG unit may xof return to
Recce/AC status.

[27.14] LRDG’s have a Capability Point
Allowance of fifty (50). However, they have no
combat ratings and may not engage in normal
combat (see Case 27.3). They have no Stacking
Points.

[27.15] There is no cost in Capability Points to
form an LRDG unit.

[27.16] If an LRDG unit is eliminated, a new one
may be formed (from that eliminated counter)
four Game-Turns later. Thus, an LRDG unit
eliminated in Operations Stage 2 of the July II
Game-Tusn would be formed in the Organization
Phase of the 3rd Operations Stage of the August II
Game-Turn,

[27.2] DIE SONDERKOMMANDO
ALMASY

The Axis desert raiders were a small group under
the command of Count Laslo von Almasy. DSA
operates in the same way — and is formed in the
same way — as LRDG units, with two exceptions:
a. There may be only one DSA unit in play at any
one time.

b. DSA may be formed only from. German (not
Italian) Armored Recce/AC units.

[27.3] HOW DESERT RAIDERS
ARE USED

[27.31] Desert raiders are represented by actual
counters. However, for the most part, their move-
ment is ‘‘hidden.’’

[27.32] At the time of initial formation, a desert
raider unit is placed on the game-map. After that,
its movement is secret: i.e., the owning Player
records all movement and location of the unit(s)
on a separate piece of paper (against a case of a
“Matter of Disbelief Between Gentlemen’’). The
desert raiders follow all the normal rules of Move-
ment (they are vehicle units, Recce type) except
that they are usually not on the game-map.

[27.33] Desert raiders remain hidden until either
of the following occurs:

a. They engage in a raid (Case 27.5); or
b. They are spotted (Case 27.4)

When either one of the above occurs, the desert
raider counter is placed on the game-map in the
hex in which the event occurred.

[27.34] Desert raiders have no Zone of Control.
Furthermore, they do not have to stop when enter-
ing an Enemy Zone of Control, although such
movement risks being spotted (see Case 27.6). To
enter an Enemy-occupied hex is to raid (Case
27.5).

[27.35] Desert raider units need supplies but not
the same as normal units. Once a week — during a
given Game-Turn (not Operations Stage) — they
must pass through a Friendly supply dump, oasis
or bir (well), As it passes through the supply
dump, it picks up (and expends) from the supply
dump one Ammunition Point and two Fuel
Points. If such supply is not available, the desert
raider unit must wait until it becomes available. It
may not travel without those two Fuel Points per
Game-Turn. Water is taken on in the same way,
but can come from any oasis or bir. If a desert
raider has not drawn water by the end of a given
Game-Turn, it is eliminated. (Players will note
that they can go 5 Operations Stages without re-
supplying, by getting supplies in Stage 1 of a
Game-Turn, then resupplying in Stage 3 of the
following Game-Turn,

[27.36] If necessary, desert raiders have Reaction
capability (see Case 27.44).

[27.37] Raiders may never exceed their 50 point
Capability Point Allowance. If for any reason they
are forced to do so, they are eliminated.

[27.38] Desert Raiders do not consume fuel (ex-
cept 27.35) nor do they breakdown.

[27.4] SPOTTING DESERT RAIDERS

[27.41] At any time a desert raider enters an
Enemy-controlled hex, or at any time an Enemy
combat unit enters a hex occupied by a Friendly
desert raider, the desert raider may be spotted.

[27.42] Desert raiders may never enter Enemy-
occupied hexes unless they are going to raid.

[27.43] If a Raider performs either action listed in
Case 27.41, the raider Player must announce the
fact and roll one die. If he rolls a 6, the raider has
been spotted. If a raider unit is spotted, it is
eliminated. Any other dieroll has no effect; the
raider has not been spotted.

[27.44] If an Enemy unit is moving (and enters the
raider hex) it must expend 1 Capability Point to try
to spot the raider, even though the Enemy Player
knows that the raider is there. In other words, the
moving Enemy Player may choose not to go after
the raider. A Phasing unit may. only try to spot a
raider once per Operations Stage.

[27.5] RAIDS

[27.51] The type of raid a desert raider may per-
form usually depends on the objective. Most raids
are ‘‘harassment”’ in nature, as they can cause lit-
tle real damage (except for Case 27.6). They in-
variably take place behind Enemy lines.

[27.52] Desert raiders may be used to blow up a
water pipeline. If a desert raider enters a hex witha
water pipeline, and there are no Enemy combat
units in that hex the raider may attempt to blow the
pipeline. The Player announces the raid, places the
raider on the game-map, and rolls one die. If he
rolls a 1-4, the pipe is blown; a 5-6 the pipeline is
safe. Such a raid may be attempted only once in an
Operations Stage. It occurs during Movement and
expends five Capability Points (the unit may, of
course, move after the raid — away from harm).

[27.53] Desert Raiders may attempt to destroy air-
fields. (Air landing strips are immune from raids;
they are simply not the type of facility that can be
rendered ineffective by desert raiders). If an
Enemy airfield has no Enemy combat units in that
hex, the desert raider may enter the airfield hex,
reveal itself, and attempt to cripple the field. The
Player rolls one die. If he rolls a 1 or 2, the capacity
of the airfield is reduced by one level (see Case
36.00). On a dieroll of 3-6, nothing happens. The
cost of the Raid is five Capability Points, and no
casualties are suffered (as there are no Enemy
combat units present). The raid may not take place
if there are Enemy combat units present.
(Squadron Ground Support Units of any type are
not combat units for this purpose.) An airfield
destruction raid may be attempted only once per
airfield per Game-Turn. However, it may be com-
bined with a plane destruction raid (see Case
27.54). Airfields in major cities may not be raided.

[27.54] Desert raiders may attempt to destroy
Enemy airplanes that are on the ground. The
planes may be in airfields or air landing strips.
(Raiders can have no effect on flying boats or their
facilities.) Planes in air facilities that have Enemy
combat units in the hex or are in major cities may
not be so raided, The raider unit enters the hex,
reveals itself and expends five Capability Points.
The Player rolls one die. If the result is a 1 or 2,
10% (at least) of all planes in the hex are
destroyed, the choice of planes being up to the
raiding player. If a 3-6 is rolled, the raid fails.
However, if the Player rolls a 6, the raider unit is
eliminated. This raid may be combined with at-
tempted destruction of an airfield, as long as all
Capability Point costs are paid.

[27.55] Raiders may attack Supply Dumps. Any
dump may be a target, except for dumps in major
cities. Unlike other raids, a desert raider may at-
tack a guarded dump. The raider unit enters the
hex with the dump, reveals itself and expends five
Capability Points. Then one of two things can
happen:

a. The Dump has no Enemy combat units: The
Player rolls one die. If he rolls a 1 or 2, 10% of all
supplies are destroyed. A 3-6 and the raid fails,
and nothing happens.

b. The Dump is guarded by Enemy combat units:
The raiding player rolls two dice, adding them
together. If the total is Aigher than the Raw Defen-
sive Assault Strength of the units guarding the
dump, the raid is on, and the Player proceeds as in
(a) above. However, unlike (a) above, if he rolls a
6, the unit is eliminated. If the total of both dice is
not higher than the Raw Defensive Strength of the
guards, the raider is simply eliminated.

[27.56] After any raiders-guards conflict is resolv-
ed, if any raiders survive, and the dump is a dum-
my that fact must be revealed immediately. The
raid is then off, in terms of destroying supplies,
but all other results (for guards and elimination)
stillapply.

{27.57} Desert raiders may attack unescorted
truck convoys in order to destroy trucks and sup-
plies. This may be ddne in one of two ways:

a. The Raider enters a hex that has a truck con-
voy; or
b. The raider uses interception (see Case 27.59)
during the opposing Player’s Convoy Movement
Phase.

[27.58] The mechanics of a truck convoy raid are
the same regardless of the way it is initiated. The
raider expends five Capability Points, enters the
hex, and the Player rolls one die. If the dierollis a 1
or 2, one Truck TOE Point (plus cargo) is
destroyed. The type of truck (heavy, medium, or
light) is up to the ‘‘defender;’’ the type of cargo is

then up to the raider. If the dieroll is 3-6, the raid
fails. If any one of the trucks is carrying Replace-
ment Points, the raider adds one to the dieroll, and
a 6 will result in the elimination of the raider. If a//
the trucks are carrying Replacernent Points, the
Raider is automatically eliminated, and there are
no Truck losses.

[27.59] Raiders may use interception to attack
truck convoys. If, during a Truck Convoy Move-
ment Phase, a truck convoy passes within four
Movement Capability Points of a desert raider, the
Player who has the raider may halt the convoy and
attack it, using the above rules. In such a case the
convoy uses five Capability-Points (but is not re-
quired to exceed its CPA) as does the raider. The
raider may then expend up to five additional
Capability Points.to leave the hex. (Remember,
the Raider pays for all Capability Points he uses.)

[27.6] RAID ON ROMMEL

This rule has been included because .we felt it
would add a bit of fun, although it is based on
solid historical events.

[27.61] Commonwealth LRDG units may attempt
to Assassinate or Capture General Rommel by at-
tempting a Raid on Rommel.

[27.62] To perform this raid, the LRDG simply
enters the hex which the Rommel counter oc-
cupies.

[27.63] The Commonwealth Player rolls two dice
and consults the Raid on Rommel TAble (27.64).
The results of that table are self-explanatory. The
cost for such a raid is 10 Capability Points, and if
the LRDLG has no Capability Points remaining it
is also eliminated.

[27.64] The Commonwealth Player may attempt
no more than four Raids on Rommel during the
course of a Campaign Game, and only one in any
shorter Scenario.

[27.65] If the Commonwealth Player is related to
Alistair McLean, Richard Burton, Franchot Tone,
or Jack Higgins he adds one to his diceroll. If the
Axis Player is an intimate friend of Erich von
Stroheim or James Mason, well, that’s nice.

[27.7] COMMANDOS: “‘Layforce’’

[27.71] One of the Commando units in the game
is: ‘A’? Battalion of the Special Service Brigade
(Commonwealth), also known as Layforce
because of its Commander: Lt. Col. R.E. Lay-
cock, of the Royal Horse Guards.

[27.72] Layforce ‘‘A’’ Battalion is the same as any
other infantry unit with one exception: if Layforce
starts an Operations Stage in Alexandria, it may be
placed during that Operations Stage in any coastal
hex on the game-map (see Case 27.77).

[27.73] Layforce ‘‘A’’ Battalion must spend one
full Game-Turn in Alexandria before. it can be
landed. Such commando landing expends 5
Capability Points from the unit for every 50 hexes
moved by the transporting ships in that OpStage,
in addition to the cost of terrain in the hex.

[27.74] Layforce ‘‘A’’ Battalion needs no supplies
for the first “Aree Operations Stages after its land-
ing, including the Stage in which it lands. After
that, it must be supplied like any other unit.

[27.75] If Layforce ‘‘A’’ Battalion is being used
for a Commando raid, trucks may not be loaded
with it.

39

40

[27.76] Layforce ‘‘A’’? may take Replacement
Points. To replace one lost point requires three In-
fantry Replacement Points trained for 12 Op-
Stages with the Lay Force unit in Alexandria.

[27.77] Layforce may be transported by a unit
from the Commonwealth Fleet. If such ship (or
ships) remain in the coastal hex in which Layforce
was landed, then the Layforce battalion may, if
necessary, retreat into the ship. Such a retreat
satisfies any and all mandated retreats. The Com-
monwealth Player may also freely embark the
Layforce back onto a ship. Once Layforce has
been moved into the ship, the ship immediately
moves back to Alexandria.

[27.8] COMMANDOS: The Special
Air Service Brigade

The Commonwealth Special Air Service Brigade
(SAS) was a specially-trained unit whose primary
function was the disruption and destruction of
Axis air facilities and planes. It was trained to raid
by land, sea or air, and in several raids it managed
to destroy over 50 Axis planes. As such, the SAS
operated closely with the LRDG, which often ar-
ranged for transportation of the SAS after its
raids.

{27.81] The Special Air Service Brigade is a
“battalion-size’’ infantry unit with a_ basic
Capability Point Allowance of 15 (see the OA
Sheets Section 04.46). It may be motorized;
however, if being used on a raid where it is trans-
ported by air or sea it may not be motorized. The
SAS Brigade may operate as a normal infantry
unit (a waste) or asa Commando unit.

[27.82] The SAS Brigade raids Enemy airfields. It
may raid guarded (with Axis troops) or unguarded
facilities. It may complete its raid (and roll for
plane destruction) only if there are no Axis combat
units in the hex. Thus, if the SAS Brigade raids a
facility with Axis combat units, it must either
eliminate such units or force such units to retreat
in some way. Any such combat is conducted nor-
mally.

[27.83] The SAS Brigade may move by land (see
Case 27.81). If it does so it moves like any other
land combat unit. It may also be transported by
any one Commonwealth Ship counter and debark-
ed in any coastal hex, at a cost of five Capability
Points to the SAS for every 50 Movement Points
or fraction thereofused by the ship. It may also be
airdropped (see Case 42.4) at a cost of 5 Capability
Points to the SAS unit.

[27.84] If the SAS Brigade travels by land, it uses
normal supply restrictions and rules. If it is trans-
ported by sea or airdropped, it is in supply for
three consecutive OpStages. This means that the
unit has all the necessary ammunition, water, and
stores it needs for those three OpStages (including
the one of its transportation). After that, it is on its
own.

[27.85] The SAS Brigade may attempt to destroy
planes on any Axis Air Facility that has no Axis
combat units present at the time the raid is attemp-
ted (see Case 27.82). The SAS unit may attempt its
raid in any Movement/Combat Segment.

{27.86] To destroy Axis Planes by an SAS raid the
Commonwealth Player consults the SAS Raid
Table, rolls one die, and removes the resultant
percentage of each type and make of plane present
(see Case 27.9). The TOE Strength of the SAS
Brigade at the time of such raid is irrelevant.

[27.87] Attempting a raid costs the SAS Brigade
three Capability Points, in addition to any other
Capability Points it may have expended during
that OpStage. Only one such raid may be perform-
ed per month, and there must be at least six
OpStages between raids.

[27.88] The SAS Brigade-may move after a raid as
far as it wishes, within the parameters of continual
movement and cohesion. However, if the
Commonwealth Player stacks that SAS Brigade
unit with an LRDG unit at any time the SAS
Brigade increases its Capability Point Allowance
to 30, is removed from ‘‘physical sight’’ (in the
fashion of an LRDG unit; see Case 00.00) and
moves as an LRDG unit. The LRDG unit must
escort the SAS unit to the point where it (the SAS
Brigade) is placed on the game-map — i.e., it has
returned home.

[27.89] The SAS Brigade may replace eliminated
TOE Strength Points, three Infantry Replacement
Points trained for a 12 OpStage period for every
TOE point needing replacement. If the SAS
Brigade is eliminated entirely, it may not be receiv-
ed or replaced in any way.

[27.9] DESERT RAIDER RAIDS TABLES
(see Charts and Tables)

[27.91] Desert Raider Raid Table
(see Charts and Tables)

[27.92] Raid on Rommel Table
(see Charts and Tables)

[27.93] Special Air Service Brigade Raid Table
(see Charts and Tables)

[28.0] PRISONERS POW

GENERAL RULE:

At any time that a unit surrenders, it becomes a
prisoner. Every infantry TOE Strength Point
becomes one Prisoner Point. Prisoners must be
fed, kept in detention, and eventually herded to
aDeparture Point for shipment elsewhere. For the
latter purposes, guard units may be formed.
Prisoners may not be massacred; historically, both
sides in the African Campaign showed a sense of
chivalry and common decency unknown in any
other theatre.

CASES:

[28.1] THE CARE AND FEEDING
OF PRISONERS

[28.11] Each Infantry TOE Strength Point that
Surrenders — not tanks or guns —- becomes a
Prisoner Point. Prisoner Points are represented by
counters, which may be used like ‘‘change.’’ They
are available as needed.

[28.12] Immediately upon surrendering, all
Prisoner Points may be moved up to three hexes in
any direction by the capturing Player. They may
not enter an Enemy-controlled or Enemy-
occupied hex or enter or pass through impassable
terrain during that ‘‘free’? movernent.

[28.13] Prisoner Points have a Capability Point
Allowance of eight, which may be used for move-
ment purposes only. They move in the captor’s
Convoy Movement Segment. They cannot, of
course, engage in combat; their Capability Point
Allowance is used for movement only. Prisoners
may never exceed their Capability Point
Allowance. If their guards are forced to retreat,
they stand still.

[28.14] The maximum number of prisoners allow-
ed in any one hex is 40 Points. If there are more
than five points ‘‘standing’’ (not moving) in a
given hex, the Player may put a POW Detention
Camp marker in the hex to indicate that prisoners
are being held there. Prisoner Point markers
always remain on the game-map until they reach
their Point of Departure.

{28.15] For every five Prisoner Points in a hex, the
capturing Player must expend one Store Point per

Operations Stage (not Game-Turn). These Stores
are expended before any other stores may be
allocated. They need not be present; they are sub-
tracted from the nearest supply dump, etc.

[28.16] Prisoners can be dealt with by captors in
any fashion they wish, as long as they are fed and
kept alive. The best course, however, is to get them
off the game-map. To do this they are marched to
Departure Points. The Axis Departure Point is the
Sirte box on game-map A; for the Common-
wealth, the Departure Point for their prisoners is
either Alexandria or Cairo. As soon as Prisoner
Points enter their Point of Departure they are
removed from the game —- permanently. (They
will not be used in factories to promote your war
effort.)

[28.17] Each detention camp requires the
presence of one Guard Point (see Case 28.2).
When moving, one Guard Point is requried for
each 1 Prisoner Points. Any prisoners without a
guard ‘‘escape’’ (see Case 28.23).

[28.18] Prisoners may be transported by trucks, if
you are feeling profligate with your transport.

[28.2] GUARDS AND ESCAPES

{28.21] Guards are needed to watch and escort
prisoners.

[28.22] Guards may be formed from any infantry-
type unit. Simply subtract a TOE Strength Point
from the combat unit and replace it with a guard
counter, Each Guard Point is an infantry unit wor-
th one TOE Strength Point, with assault ratings of
0/1. Guards have a Capability Point Allowance of
10, but they are usually moving at a rate of 8, the
same as their prisoners. Guards are capable of
combat, reaction, etc. Players should note that if
guards react or retreat before combat, their
prisoners do not. Unused Guard Points may be
returned to their unit of origin.

[28.23] If Guards abandon prisoners at any time,
or there are prisoners in excess of the guard
requirements (see Case 28.17), those prisoners
escape. (There are no organized prison breaks
here; this is Africa, not Colditz).

[28.24] If escaped prisoners are within eight
Capability Points of a Friendly unit — not count-
ing Enemy Zones of Control or units — they are
placed with that Friendly unit. They are then
removed from play and one month later aretreated
as Replacement Points, to be brought back for
Training, etc. They may not be used to assign or
attach to units. If the escapees are farther than
eight Capability Points, they may start to move
towards Friendly units. All they require is water. If
they have water, they survive. For every Opera-
tions Stage without water, they lose 10% of their
strength, rounded up. They stop moving when
they reach a Friendly unit or Friendly major city,
or if they are recaptured (an Enemy unit enters
their hex). Escapees move in the Truck Convoy
Phase. (Players may not escort Prisoners into the
deep desert and then remove their guards in order
that the escapees will die of thirst before reaching
safety.)

[28.25] Escapees have no combat values at all.
However, they may never be attacked in any way.
Escaped prisoners are automatically recaptured if
an Enemy unit is moved into‘a hex containing just
them.

[28.26] The above rules for escapees should be
taken cum grano salis. They are meant as fun; this
is not a game of escape and evasion. Use the rule
judiciously and with common sense.

[28.3] CAPTURED EQUIPMENT

Note that captured equipment, unlike prisoners,
may be used against their former Player’s units, as
long as it has been repaired.

[29.0] WEATHER
GENERAL RULE:

“Whether there’s weather or no, we must have
weather, you know,’’ In any case, weather is deter-
mined for each individual Operations Stage. There
are four types of weather: normal, hot, sand-
storms, and rainstorms. The probability of a given
type of weather occuring depends on the season
and the area of the game-map. Weather affects
movement and breakdown.

CASES:

[29.1] WEATHER DETERMINATION

The Player with initiative rolls two dice and con-
sults the Weather Table (29.6), using the proper
row, in terms of season. The dice results are read
sequentially. The Weather Table gives the weather
for that Operations Stage (e.g., a diceroll of 53
during summer results in Hot Weather).

The Seasons are as follows:

Season Starts Ends (inclusive)
Spring March III June II
Summer June III September IT
Fall September III December II
Winter December III March II

If a ‘‘sandstorm”’ or ‘‘rainstorm”’ result is obtain-
ed, the Player consults the Foul Weather Location
Table (29.7) and rolls one die. This determines the
map sections affected. Unaffected map sections
have normal weather. Note: Weather never affects
Malta, Italy, Sicily, Crete, or Tunesia-Tripoli.
Weather effects on map E do affect Allied off-
map airfields.

[29.2] NORMAL WEATHER

Normal weather in North Africa means hot during
the day and cold at night. But, for game purposes,
normal weather has no effect on the play of the
game. The effects of such weather are already built
into the system.

[29.3] HOT WEATHER

[29.31] When hot weather occurs, it occurs on ail
sections of all game-maps.

[29.32] When undergoing construction, the sites,
exclusive of the requirements of units there, re-
quire water rations (see Case 24.21) in hot
weather.

[29.33] When determining Breakdown during hot
weather, adjust the. Breakdown Column one col-
umn higher (to the right), see Case 21.37.

[29.34] If the weather is hot, a// Fuel and Water-

Levels (not including water in wells or oases) are
reduced by five per-cent (5%). This includes water
and fuel in dumps as well as in trucks. However,
do not count the water/gas actually being consum-
ed by a unit (in the radiators and gas tanks, as it
were.) This is done during the Weather Determina-
tion Phase.

[29.35] During hot weather, water requirements

for all units are doubled.
SAND
STORM
[29.4] SANDSTORMS Cees

Sandstorms are whirling maelstroms of grit and
dust, blinding personnel and clogging machinery
for days. Visibility falls to zero, and all action
comes to a virtual standstill. Most men preferred
combat to the raging sandstorms.

[29.41] Sandstorms occur only on certain sections
of the game-map, as per the Weather Table (29.6).
Regardless of where a sandstorm occurs, it mever
occurs over delfa hexes (Game-Map E). The
Weather for game-maps on which there is no sand-
storm is normal.

[29.42] No construction may occur in a hex in
which there is a sandstorm (see Case 24.22).

[29.43] No aircraft may fly into or out of a hex
with a sandstorm.

[29.44] A// movement costs for hexes with a sand-
storm are doubled.

[29.45] If a unit expends 50% or more of its
Capability Points for movement in sandstorm
hexes during a given Movement Phase, the Player
adjusts his Breakdown Point column one higher
(to the right) when rolling for breakdown (see Case
21.37).

[28.46] Sandstorms do not extend out into the
Mediterranean (they stop in the coastal hexes).

[29.47] Sandstorms may damage Grounded Air-
craft (see Case 38.5)

[29.5] RAINSTORMS

Sudden downpours in the desert were a lot more
common than is supposed. Aside from the blessing
of having water, these rainstorms often wreaked
havoc on movement, turning roads into morasses
of mud and flooding heretofore empty wadis with
swollen — and deep — rivers of rainwater.

[29.51] Rainstorms occur only on certain game-
maps; see the Weather Table (29.6). Any game-
map that does not have a rainstorm has normal
weather.

[29.52] No aircraft may fly into or out of a
rainstorm hex. Note: Rainstorms do extend to the
northern edge of the map; i.e., into the Mediterra-
nean,

[29.53] All depleted wells are filled during a
rainstorm.

[29.54] No construction may occur during a
rainstorm (see Case 24.22).

[29.55] All wadi hexsides are uncrossable during a
rainstorm, except by Roads (see Case 29.56).
Players may not use wadis to draw water.

[29.56] All road hexes have the same Movement
Cost and Breakdown Rate as tracks during
rainstorms. Tracks, themselves, remain as tracks,
with the exception of Case 29.55.

[29.57] All river hexsides not crossed by roads or
railroads are impassable.

[29.58] No vehicle or motorized unit may enter a
delta hex, unless it is on a road or railroad. Units in
a delta hex at the start of a rainstorm must remain
there for that Operations Stage, unless they are on
aroad or railroad.

[29.6] WEATHER TABLE
(see Charts and Tables)

[29.7] FOUR WEATHER
LOCATION TABLE

(see Charts and Tables)

[30.0] THE MEDITERRANEAN
FLEET (Commonwealth)

GENERAL RULE:

The Commonwealth Player is supplied with a
number of battleships, cruisers and destroyers,
which he may use for barrage and anti-aircraft
purposes, They may not engage in naval combat
(as there is none in the game). The ships — and
their usage — are somewhat abstracted, as Naval
movement by the British Fleet was extensive and
erratic, and records of such are often inaccurate
and misleading. Each ship has a Barrage Strength
which is equivalent to Actual (not Raw) Barrage

Points. They may be used to bombard. Ships may
be subject to air attack as well as fire from land
units. The Axis Player may try to cripple the
British fleet with a daring Italian ‘“‘Chariot”’ raid.
The Italian Navy does not appear in this game; its
actions are abstracted into the Axis Convoy Rules
(see Section 51.0).

CASES:

[30.1] COMMONWEALTH NAVAL
COUNTERS

[30.11] Commonwealth naval units are, in
essence, abstracted battleships, cruisers and
destroyers. They have been given names (of ships
actually in the Med at the time) for identification
purposes. However, the British Fleet was never a
stable affair, in terms of position, and thus the
Naval units represent types of ships available,
rather than an actual ships.

[30.12] The naval counters have two strength
numbers: their Gun Rating and'their AA Rating.
The Naval Gun Rating is equivalent to Actual Bar-
rage Strength Points. The unit’s AA/Flak rating is
actual AA Points. Thus, the Queen Elizabeth, a
battleship, has an (initial) Barrage Strength of 6
and an Anti-aircraft strength of 12 AA points.

[30.13] The Gun Rating of a unit/ship also
represents its ability to withstand damage. (I said
this was abstracted.) Thus, each point of Gun
Rating is like a Strength Point. To completely sink
a ship, all points of Gun Rating must be eli-
mianted. AA points are reduced in ratio to loss of
Gun Points.

[30.14] Naval units have no Stacking Points; they
stack freely in any coastal or all-sea hex. They have
no effect — in terms of their presence — on land
movement, or air movement, or other Naval
Movement, Enemy or friendly.

[30.15] Commonwealth Naval units have a Range
of 100 sea hexes. This means they may reach any
hex within 100 sea hexes of Alexandria (I.e., they
may not be placed further West than hexrow xx29
on Map Section ‘B’.). They do not actually move;
they are simply placed in their hex of assignment at
the beginning of a given OpStage.

[30.16] Naval units need no fuel, ammunition, or
water within the requirement that they must spend
two Operations Stages in Port for every one in ac-
tion. In addition, no single ship may spend more
than three consecutive Op-Stages at sea. (This, in
turn, would require six Op-Stages in port.)

[30.17] The Italians do have a ship: The San
Giorgio. Unfortunately, it has been partially sunk
to block the harbor at Tobruk. It operates as if it
were an artillery unit, until its removal or complete
sinking by enemy engineers. The San Giorgio may
not move. It may fire into adjacent hexes. It may
fire at Commonwealth ships adjacent hexes
through sea hexsides.

[30.18] Commonwealth ships may be moved to
and from the port of Valetta (Malta). No more
than five ships may be in Valetta at any one time.
Valetta is a port (like Alexandria) for ‘‘recovery”’
purposes. Ships in Valletta may be moved only to
Alexandria. Movement between these ports takes
one Op-Stage; it is not considered a turn‘‘at-sea’’
for purposes of refit.

[30.2] OFF-SHORE BOMBARDMENT

(30.21] Commonwealth ships may bombard any
coastal hex they are in. In addition, battleships
and heavy cruisers (4-pointers) may bombard any
hex adjacent to the coastal hex they are in.

[30.22] Ship Gun Ratings are used as if they were
Actual Artillery Strength Points, with the excep-
tion that they need no ammunition. The Com-
monwealth Player just considers them as if they

A]

42

were Artillery units in determining the effect of the
naval guns, with one exception: battleships and
heavy cruisers firing at 2 hexes distant (see Case
30.21) have their strength halved.

[30.23] To use ships for Off-Shore Bombard-
ment, the Commonwealth Player simply moves
the ship frem its home Port (which is usually Alex-
andria) to any hex within Movement Range it
wishes to barrage from. Example: The British
Player wishes to use the Valiant (a BB) and the A-
jax (Heavy Cruiser) to bombard Derna. He places
both ships in the Derna hex (00000) in the Com-
monwealth Fleet Assignment Segment; in any one
Barrage Step of that Operations Stage they may
bombard Derna and any hexes ajdacent to it.

[30.24] Any one ship may use its Barrage Strength
only once in an Operations Stage; it may not fire
repeatedly, like an artillery unit (e.g., in the exam-
ple in Case 30.23, the Commonwealth Player
could fire twice, once with each ship). However,
the Barrage Step that the ships fire in is up to the
Commonwealth Player.

[30.25] If a Commonwealth ship engages in Off-
Shore Bombardment, it must spend the next two
Operations Stages in Alexandria. This require-
ment has nothing to do with a ship firing anti-
aircraft guns at Enemy planes.

[30.3] ATTACKING SHIPS
AND THEIR REPAIR

[30.31] Ships may be damaged by airbombard-
ment (see Case 39.3), Coastal Guns (Case 30.36),
or, in a special case, an Italian Chariot Raid (Case
30.4).

[30.32] Enemy bombers, fighter bombers, and
torpedo-carrying planes may bomb a ship counter
in an effort to damage the ship, reduce its Gun
Rating, and put it out of action. Planes bomb
ships when they are in the same hex.

[30.33] Bombing ships is a mission; a plane must
be assigned to such mission in order to attack the
ship. Even if it is in the same hex but is not assign-
ed to bomb the ship it may not attack the ship. See
Cases 41.3 and 41.7 for Ship Bombardment.

[36.34] Damage on ships is taken in Gun Rating
Points. The Air Bombardment Table gives the
number of Damage Points in Gun Rating Points
lost as a result of that mission. The Gun Rating of
such ship is reduced accordingly. Thus, if the Ajax
(a 4) were to suffer two Damage points, it would
now have a Gun Rating of two (and an AA Rating
of 4). Players should keep track of the Gun
Ratings and Damage Levels of ships on their Ship
Assignment Sheet. Ships always fire with their
reduced (if any) Gun and AA Ratings.

[30.35] Artillery units (with Vulnerability Ratings
of 6 or more) and emplaced guns may be used
against Enemy ships in the same hex as the artillery
unit. The Player simply notes that the artillery is
firing against the ships (separately from any Air
Bombardment). Such artillery may not fire that
Stage against land units. The Player takes the total
Raw Artillery Points firing (not actual) and halves
that total. He then uses the Air Bombardment
Table, using the Artillery Points as if they were
Bomb Points. Emplaced Guns (those Guns with a
zero CPA) do not halve their Raw Points.

[30.36] If a ship’s Gun Rating falls to less than
50% of its Face Value, it may not leave Port until it
has been repaired to better than 50% of its value.
If a ship’s entire Gun Ratings have been
eliminated, it is sunk (and unrepairable).

[30.37] To repair one Gun Rating level, a Ship
must stay in Alexandria for six consecutive Opera-
tions Stages. No engineer is needed, and no sup-
plies are expended. If the ship moves before the six
Stages are finished, all work must start again.

[30.38] Ships may a@/ways fire as anti-aircraft guns
regardless of where they are or what else they are
doing — even repair.

[30.39] The San Giorgio may fire at Com-
monwealth ships using its gun rating as Bombard-
ment Points. See Case 30.35.

[30.4] THE ITALIAN 10TH
LIGHT FLOTILLA:
Chariot Raids

In one of the most daring raids of the war, six men
of the Italian 10th Light Flotilla, piloting slow-
speed torpedoes called ‘‘Chariots’’ (or, affec-
tionately, ‘‘Pigs’’), slipped through the defense
nets of Alexandria harbor on the night of 18
December, 1941 and extensively damaged the
Valiant, the Queen Elizabeth and two other ships,
thoroughly crippling the British Fleet in the
Eastern Mediterranean. The following rule
simulates this remarkable feat of, daring and
courage.

[30.41] Starting in July of 1941, the Axis Player
may attempt a ‘‘chariot”’ raid on Alexandria. His
object: to damage Commonwealth shipping.

[30.42] The raid must be planned two weeks (six
Operation Stages) in advance. The raid actually
occurs on the seventh Operations Stage following
the Stage in which it is planned. The Axis Player
simply notes on a piece of paper the date of the
plan of the raid and its execution.

[30.43] The raid takes place in the Air Mission
Completion Segment of the Land Support Air
Phase (after all ships have been sent out on any
missions in the Ship Assignment Phase).

{30.44] The Axis Player announces the Frogman
Raid and rolls one die, consulting the ‘‘Chariot”’
Table (30.46). The results on that table are self-
explanatory.

[30.45] No supplies are needed or expended.
However, the Chariot raid may be attempted only
once in the game. It may be used only in a Cam-
paign Game — not in an abbreviated scenario.

[30.46] The Chariot Table
(see Charts and Tables)

[30.5] NAVAL TRANSPORT
OF TROOPS

Only the Commonwealth has the ability to trans-
port troops by sea; the Axis had little viable coastal
shipping in North Africa. What they had was used
for supplies. This section applies only to person-
nel; transporting of supplies by sea is covered-in
Case 00.00.

[30.51] The Commonwealth may transfer units-

from one port to another, dependent on the per-
sonnel capacity of the port. Furthermore, ports
may be incapacitated as a result of Enemy Air
Bombardment (Case 39.3), in which event they are
incapable of receiving or shipping out any person-
nel.

[30.52] The Commonwealth Player may make on-
ly one transfer of personnel per Operations Stage
per port. Naval Transport and Transfer of troops
takes place in the Truck Convoy Movement Phase.
Thus, regardless of the ports used, or the direction
of the transfer/transport (east-west), only one
transfer/transport operation may occur per
Operations Stage in any one port.

[30.53] All transfer of personnel from one port to
another may affect any shipments of supplies
received (see Case 30.57).

[30.54] The number of troops that may be debark-
ed or embarked at a given port is dependent on the
Port Personnel Capacity. The Port Personnel
Capacity is the number of Sfacking Points that
that port can take in or send out in a given Opera-

tions Stage. Understandably, the capacity of the
transfer will be limited by the port with the
smallest capacity, be it the port of embarkation or
debarkation.

[30.55] To be transferred, a unit or units must
start the Operations Stage in the port of debarka-
tion. It may expend no Capability Points during
the Phases prior to the Truck Convoy Segment. In
the Truck Convoy Segment, it is transferred to the
port of embarkation, where it is landed at a cost in
Capability Points equivalent to its Capability
Point Allowance.

[36.56] Transfers may not take place between
ports when one is incapacitated because of Enemy
Air Bombardment (see Case 39.3). Transfer may
take place between any Friendly-controlled Ports.
(Control means the last Player to occupy the hex.)

[36.57] Whenever a Player transports troops by
way of a port, the ability of that port to handle

‘supplies is reduced by the percentage listed in Case

30.59. Thus, if Benghazi brought in any troops, its
supply transport capacity (reduced or maximum
level) is reduced by 25% for that Operations Stage.

[30.58] Ports may be blocked by mines, etc. (see
Case 50.2). This does not affect a port’s capacity
to receive personnel (as above) until and unless
that port is reduced to /ess than 2/3 (67%) capaci-
ty, rounded up. In such case, the port may not
receive or send any personnel. Any port that is
totally incapacitated by bombing may not, of
course, receive or send personnel.

[30.59] Port Capacity Chart
(see separate sheet)

[30.6] Commonwealth Fleet Reinforcement
Schedule

[31.0] ROMMEL
GENERAL RULE:

The Axis Player receives a counter representing
General Rommel. The Rommel counter aids the
Axis Player in several ways (see also Raid on Rom-
mel, Section 27.6):

1. Rommel has a Movement Capability Point
Allowance of sixty (60); the Rommel counter is
considered a vehicle (treat as 4-wheel drive
medium truck with AM radio only and no ).
He has no combat ratings.

2. Rommel may react and retreat before assault
when approached by any unit except an LRDG.
He may Retreat through an Enemy Zone of Con-
trol with impunity.

3. If Rommel is in the same hex as a unit involved
in combat during the Combat Phase, all units in
that stack have their Morale increased by one.

4. If Rommel starts an Operations Stage with a
unit(s) and remains with that unit for the entire
Operations Stage, such unit may increase its
Capability Point Allowance by five points.

In addition to the above, there is a chance that
Rommel has been called back to Berlin or has
flown to Germany for health reasons. At the
beginning of each Game-Turn that Rommel is pre-
sent the Axis Player rolls two dice. If he rolls a 12
Rommel is in Germany, and the Axis Initiative
falls to 3 for that Game-Turn. Rommel returns the
next Game-Turn (unless the Player throws another
12).

A brief Designer’s Note: The inclusion of Rommel
as a counter (without using other specific com-
manders) was a pure design decision. While Rom-
mel did have a great affect on tactical operations
and decisions, including only him in the game is a
Design Affectation, pure and simple. However,
the effect of the Rommel counter /s historical.

[32.0] ABSTRACT LOGISTICS
AND AIR RULES

COMMENTARY:

The design thrust of CNA is logistics: the
availability and proper use of supplies and trucks.
As a simple experiment to test the efficacy of this,
try motorizing all Italian divisions in 1940, doubl-
ing Italian initial supply outlay and arrival. Watch
them winter in Cairo. However, both designer and
developer, men of some mercy, felt that there were
those who might want to try CNA from a purely
military viewpoint. To this end, they have for-
mulated the rules below, enabling players to work
within a simpler logistics format. The game is not
really simplified, it is just a lot less work; it should
also cut playing time in half (from endless to simp-
ly horrendous).Moreover, because virtually all of
the design effort went into the stardard game, us-
ing these rules will have some effect on game
balance. How much is up to how well and how
historically the players perform. (see Section
65.0).

GENERAL RULE:

This Section applies if the Players are playing the
Land Game without the Air and Logistics Games.
All supply expenditures in the Land and Air
‘Games rules are ignored and are replaced by those
Ammo andFuel costs listed in this section. Players
will not receive any trucks but rather receive
Motorization Points which may beused to increase
the CPA of non-motorized units or to transport
“Supply Units.’’ Supply Units contain Ammo and
Fuel Points which must be expended in order for
units to move and fight. Supply units are received
in lieu of and, with some adjustments, in the same
manner as standard supplies.

[32.1] SUPPLY UNITS AND SUPPLY

[32.11] The Players ignore all references to usage
and expenditure of Ammo, Fuel, Stores and
Water. (Thus, no unit will ever suffer attrition
from lack of Stores, etc.). Only those rules for sup-

ply given below apply.

9

[32.12] The Players will be receiving Supply
Units, which are abstract substitutes for all of the
aforementioned points. A Supply Unit is
represented by a Supply Dump counter.

{32.13] A Supply Unit has no combat capabilities.
If any enemy combat unit enters a Supply Unit’s
hex, that unit is captured (and its supplies used im-
mediately and freely).

[32.14] A Supply Unit possesses a stacking value
of zero. However, only five such units may be
placed in a Major City hex while only three units
may be placed in any other type of hex off-map.
The boxes of the Tripoli/Tunisia region may con-
tain an unlimited number of Supply Units.

[32.15] A Supply Unit initially contains and may
never contain more than 40 Ammo Points and 60
Fuel Points. Expenditures will reduce these
numbers, When both Ammo and Fuel Points are
at zero, the Supply Unit is removed. Supplies may
be rearranged (at no cost) among Supply Units oc-
cupying the same hex during the Organization
Phase. Movement and combat supply re-
quirements may be satisfied by any Friendly Supp-
ly Unit within range.

[32.16] A Supply Unit may be drawn upon by any
Friendly combat unit if it is within one-half (1/2)
of that combat unit’s CPA. Thus, a non-
motorized infantry unit would have to be within 5
CP’s of a Supply Unit, while a heavy weapons unit

being transported by Motorization Points would

ave to be within 10 CP’s and a typical recce unit
unit within 23 CP’s. The distance is calculated
from the unit to the Supply Unit as though it is be-
ing traversed by a medium Truck unless the unit is
a non-motorized infantry unit in which case it is
traced as infantry movement. The supply line may
not be traced thru impassable terrain or enemy
ZOC’s unoccupied by Friendly units.

[32.17] Players may attempt to destroy Supply
Units they are with. To do.so the Player expends
one-half of the CPA of all units in the hex (roun-
ding upwards) and rolls one die for each Supply
Unit in the hex. If he rolls a 1, 2 or 3 the Supply
Unit is destroyed, any other result and it is unaf-
fected. If the sum of the Stacking Points in the hex
during the attempt is one or less, add one to the die
roll. Attempting destruction of Supply Unit(s) oc-
curs prior to any movement in a given sub-segment
of a Movement/Combat Segment. Only one at-
tempt may be made per Supply Unit per sub-
Segment.

[32.18] Players may use dummy Supply Units to
confuse their opponent(s). For every three Supply
Units a Player receives and/or begins a scenario
with, a Player may place one dummy Supply Unit
on the map. It is moved int he same fashion as the
real thing (although it requires less Motorization
Points) and is removed upon discovery.

[32.2] SUPPLY EXPENDITURES

The Players will be required to keep track of the
number of Ammo and Fuel Points in each supply
unit. The Supply Dump, Truck Convoy and TOE
Log Sheets may be used for this purpose. Note that
for this Case’s purposes, the Commonwealth Fleet
and TOE Strength Points being used to Patrot do
not require supplies.

[32.21] Ammo Points are expended by the
number of individual battalion-equivalents sup-
plied (that is, a five Stacking Point value division
expends ammo by its component counters — not
as a whole). A non-Phasing Bn-Eq requires one
Ammo Point to participate in an Assault and two
Ammo Points to participate in a Barrage. A Phas-
ing unit requires twice the appropriate number of
Ammo Points as a non-Phasing Unit.

[32.22] Ammo Points must be expended at the in-
stant of combat.

[32.23] Fuel Points are expended per Operations
State. Basically, each battalion-equivalent ex-
pends one Fuel Point in any Operations State in
which it is moved by land (as opposed to rail or
sea). In each Operations Stage, the first time a fuel
requiring unit is moved, the required one (or two)
Fuel Points are expended from a Supply Unit. This
unit may now be moved up to its CPA in any com-
bination of movements and halts within that
Operations State. If the unit exceeds its CPA in
that OpStage, additional Fuel Points must be ex-
pended at the instant the unit exceeds its CPA.

[32.24] Each tank battalion equivalent requires
two fuel points for movement. Each tank
Company-Eq requires one fuel point to move, All
Gun-Class and Recce-type (excluding camel recon-
naissance) battalion-equivalents require one Fuel
Point to move. Any Motorization Points transpor-
ting infantry units (not Replacement Points) or
gun unit battalion-equivalents or a real Supply
Unit require one Fuel Point. (Company-
equivalents or Motorization Points used for pur-
poses other than listed above do not require Fuel
Points).

{32.25] Patrolling does not require supply expen-
diture.

[32.3] MOVEMENT OF SUPPLY UNITS

[32.31] Supply Units may be moved by land, -rail, _

sea, and air. A Supply Unit may be moved by land
or rail during the OpStage in which it arrives.

[32.32] Supply Units may be transported by
Motorization Points. Thirty Motorization Points
are required to transport one real supply unit. Six
Motorization Points are required to transport a
dummy supply unit. Motorization Points may be
attached/detached to supply units only during the
Organization Phase of an OpStage. A supply unit
not assigned the minimum necessary number of
Motorization Points may not be moved.

{32.33] A supply unit being transported by
Motorization Points may be moved in the owning
Player’s Movement/Combat Phase or Truck Con-
voy Phase but not both. It may be moved in the
friendly Movement and Combat Phase only if it
begins and remains stacked with a Friendly com-
bat unit. Not that this restriction has no effect on
the normal non-Phasing movement.

{32.34] The Commonwealth Player may
transport any two supply units (real and/or dum-
my) by rail in any one direction as the total load for
a given Operation Stage. Normal rail movement
rules apply.

[32.35] The Axis Player may transport supply
units by Axis Coastal Shipping. Each supply unit
requires 2000 tons of coastal shipping (he may use
two ships on one mission).

[32.36] The Commonwealth Player may
transport a total of one supply unit per OpStage by
sea to/from the ports of Alexandria, Benghazi,
and Torbruk. The port of destination must curren-
ly possess an efficiency level permitting the usage
of at least 50% of the port’s listed capacity. This
sea transport occurs during the Naval Convoy Ar-
rival Phase andis in lieu of any combat unit
transport from the port of origin and into the port
of destination.

[32.37] Only supply units may be transported by
air. Each Player may air transport one supply unit
per Game-Turn. The air transport occurs during
the Organization Phase of an OpStage (Motoriza-
tion Points may be detached in order for the supp-
ly unit to be air transported). The supply unit is
simply picked up and placed in a new hex. The hex
of origin and destination must be a major city,
village, or Tripoli/Tunisia box. The owning
Player must expend 12 Fuel Points before
transport from any supply unit in the hex or
origin. The supply unit may not be transported
from a hex if there are any Enemy combat units
within five hexes of that hex. The supply unit may
not be transported further east (if Axis), or west (if
Commonwealth) than the eastern-
most/westernmot hexrow (respectively) occupied
by a Friendly division (shell or full). In addition,
the destination hex must be occupied by a Friendly
division or brigade (not battle-group) head-
quarters counter. An air-transported supply unit
(and its supplies) may not be moved at all by the
owning Player that OpStage, although it may be
drawn upon (see Case 32.16).

[32.4] AVAILABLILITY OF
SUPPLY UNITS

[32.41] At the start of each scenario the Players
receive a specified number of Supply Units (see the
Simplified Supply case in each scenario). In addi-
tion, the Players receive Supply Units from the
Simplified Supply Unit Availability Tables (see
case 32.46 and 32.47).

[32.42] Supply Units for the Axis Player arrive as
per convoy, see 32.6 Commonwealth Supply Units
are placed in Cairo unless more than three are
received in a single Game-Turn. In sucha case, one
Supply Unit for every three received may be placed
in Alexandria.

43

[32.43] At the beginning of each Game-Turn, the
Players plan for the arrival of their supply units.
The Axis Player plans two Game-Turns in ad-
vance, the Commonwealth four Game Turns in
advance. Players may do as much planning as is
necessary to that, with the exception of the starting
Game-Turn of a scenario, Supply Units arrive on
all Game-Turns (if permitted by the planning die
rolls).

[32.44] The Axis Player plans his supply using the
following procedure. He consults the Axis Naval
Convoy (00.00) and determines the appropriate
Availability Chart Tonnage Availability Letter for
the month in which he is planning (not the month
in which it is arriving). He then consults the Axis
Simplified Supply Availability Table. He rolls one
die and cross indixes the roll with the column mat-
ching the letter. The result is the number ‘of Real
Supply Units he may bring in on Axis Naval Con-
voys two Game-Turns from then.

[32.43] The Commonwealth Player plans his sup-
ply using the following procedure. He consults the
Commonwealth Simplified Supply Availability
Table and determines the time period involved.
This time period is that of the arrival of the Supply
Units, not the one in which they are being planned.
He then rolls one die, cross indexing it with the
proper column. The result is the number of Real
Supply Units he receives four Game-Turns hence.

[32.46] Axis Simplified Supply Availability Table
(see Charts and Tables)

[32.47] Commonwealth Simplified Supply
Availability Table
(see charts and tables)

[32.5] MOTORIZATION POINTS

[32.53] Motorization Points are used in place of
Truck Points. They are used to transport
(motorize)units and may also be assigned to
transport Supply Units. Motorization Points are
treated in all aspects as Medium Truck Points ex-
cept as modified in this Major Case.

[32.52] Each scenario lists the number of
Motorization Points initially available to the
Players. Additional Motorization Points are
received as reinforcements as per scenario instruc-
tions. In addition, Players may bring in Motoriza-
tion Points as Replacements at a rate equal to their
ability to bring in Mdium Truck Replacement
Points.

[32.53] Motorization Points may be used to
transport units and all Guns with a CPA of 0+.
All normal units are considered to possess their
own ‘built-in’ transport, as in the standard game.

[32.54] All ‘leg’ infantry units may be motorized.
However, a Player must assign Motorization
Points sufficient to transport all historically
motorized infantry units (i.e., those with CPA’s of
8+ and 10+) before assigning them to any other
infantry-type units.

[32.55] Motorization points are not subject to
Breakdown. All other Breakdown rules apply.

[32.56] Motorization Points are normally subject
to loss only if the unit they are assigned to is
eliminated. If their assigned unit is captured, the
Motorization Points are also captured and may be
used by the Enemy. Note that a Barrage Combat
Result against Trucks never occurs.

[32.57] Motorization Points are subject to
(abstract) loss from various factors (mostly Enemy
aircraft). During the first Naval Convoy Stage of
each month, Motorization Points losses for the
previous month are determined. The Players con-
sult the Abstract Motorization Point Loss Chart
and read the result for the appropriate month. The
number to the left of the stroke is the percentage of

Motorization Points lost by the Commonwealth
Player; the number to the right of the stroke the
percentage lost by the Axis Player. The percentage
is that of the total Motorization Points belonging
to the Player on the map (which includes
Tripolitania-Tunis boxes) at that point in time.
The points lost may be removed from anywhere on
map Section E for the Commonwealth Player or
anywhere on Section A (including the off-map
region) for the Axis Player.

[32.58] Motorization Points transporting a supp-
ly unit have the following attributes:

A. They possess a CPA of 15.

B.If forced to exceed their CPA for any reason,
they must be returned to the last hex in which
they had not exceeded their CPA.

C. Are not required to expend CP’s if stacked with
combat units participating in combat.

D.May react unless the unit moving adjacent
possesses a CPA of 35 or more.

[32.59] Abstract Truck/Motorization Loss Chart.

(see Charts and Tables)

[32.6] SIMPLIFIED AXIS
NAVAL CONVOYS

[32.61] In the abstract Logistics game system,
Axis Naval Convoys consist of all Supply Units,
Motorization Points and Replacement Points for
that Game-Turn. These items may be divided and
assigned to any Convoy Lane available, as per
rules for such assignment (56.0). These are no ton-
nage limitation.

[32.62] The Axis Player may never assign more
than three Supply Units and twenty Motorization
Points to any one Convoy Lane in any one Naval
Convoy Stage. Note that the Axis Player is limited
by the Replacement Pool’s charts as to the max-
imum number of each type item that may be
assigned to Axis Naval Convoys (total) for arrival
during a particular Game-Turn.

[32.63] The Commonwealth Player may attempt
to destroy whatever is being shipped by a par-
ticular convoy. He may attack all convoys
regardless of the weather on the map. The at-
tack(s) occur in the Naval Convoy Phase of the
OpStage. The Axis Player announces which con-
voy lanes are being used. The Commonwealth
Player then attacks each arriving convoy separate-
ly.

[32.64] Each attack is carried out as follows: The
Commonwealth Player consults the Simple Axis
Naval Convoy Bombing Chart (32.66) and reads
down the proper Convoy Lane column until
reaching the westernmost location of a qualifying
Commonwealth division. He then reads across
that row to determine the number of Bomb Points
to be used in the attack. The Commonwealth
Player then consults the Air Bombardment Com-
bat Results Table, rolls two dice reading them se-
quentially and refers to the previously determined
Bomb Points column to yield the result. The result
is expressed in percentage of supply units,
Motorization Points and Replacement Points
assigned to that convoy lane that are destroyed.

[32.65] The result obtained above on the Axis
Naval’ Convoy is modified as follows:

A.A result of 10% applies only to Motorization
Points and Replacement Points, rounding frac-
tions down for the former and rounding fractiongs
up for the latter.

B.A result of 20% or greater applies to all items
being conveyed, rounding fractions down. How-
ever, at least one point of each and Supply Unit is
always eliminated.

Losses of tanks and guns, within each nationality,
are in percentages of the total, not the individual

types. For example, a convoy carrying one point
of CV 33’s, two points of PzII’s, two points of
PzIIIJ’s and two points of PzIVH’s that suffers a
10% loss only has the CV 33 and one German tank
point eliminated (the Axis Player’s choice).

[32.66] Simple Axis Naval Convoy Bombing Chart
(see Charts and Tables)

[32.7] BOMBARDMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH FLEET

[32.71] The Axis Player may perform a limited
number of Bombardment attacks on the Com-
monwealth Fleet in Alexandria Harbor.

[32.72] The Axis Player determines the number of
such attacks he is permitted to make in the
scenario as follows: He rolls one die secretly, ad-
ding two to the number if playing a Campaign
Game. The result is the number of attacks the Axis
Player may perform against Commonwealth ships
using the Air Bombardment and Secondary Bar-
rage Targets Combat Results Table in that
Scenario.

[32.73] The Axis Player may only perform one
such attack per Operations Stage. Each attack
must be plotted secretly during the’ Com-
monwealth Fleet Assignment Segment of an
Operations Stage. Once planned, it occurs in the
Tactical Naval Movement Segment of that Opera-
tions Stage.

[32.74] The attack is performed as follows:

a. The Axis Player determines the strength of the
attack by consulting the Air Bombardment and
Secondary Barrage Target Combat Results Table
and rolling one die, adding two to the die roll if
playing the Campaign Game. The attack is deter-
mined on that number of columns in from the left
hand side of the table (that is, a roll of 1 would
result in the attack being performed on the Bomb
Points: 1-20 column, etc.)

b. The Axis Player rolls two dice, reading them se-
quentially. He cross-indexes the dice roll with the
proper column to determine the result. The result
is the number of damage points (see the Chariot
Raid Table, 30.46) inflicted upon the ships in
Alexandria Harbor (only). The Axis Player may
distribute these Damage Points in any manner he
wishes.

[32.75] No Bombardment attack may be made if
Game-map section ‘‘E’’’s weather is either rain
storm or sand storm.

[32.8] ANTI-ARR UNIT MODIFICATIONS

[32.81] The Commonwealth Player removes all
Anti-air units and all Light and Heavy Anti-air
TOE Strength Points (regardless of where
assigned) from play. This includes anti-air
Replacement Points. Captured Axis anti-air TOE
Strength Points are immediately removed from
play.

[32.82] The Axis Player removes all German anti-
air units with ID Codes of ‘‘z,”’ and ‘‘bb’’ from
play. All assigned light anti-air TOE Strength
Points and Replacement Points are removed from
play. Heavy anti-air TOE Strength Points and
Replacement Points are unaffected.

[32.83] The Axis Player’s Italian forces are af-
fected as follows:

1. All anti-air units (.e., those with ID Codes of
“ss,’? “tt? and ‘‘uu’’) are removed from play.

2. All anti-air TOE Strength Points assigned to
emplaced gun units (ID Code ‘‘pp’’) are removed
from play (just the AA points);

3. Artillery units that may be assigned anti-air
points (ID Code ‘‘kk’’) lose all assigned Heavy
anti-air TOE Strength Points.

4. All Heavy anti-air (i.e., 75mm and 90mm)
Replacement Points are lost.

5. Light anti-air Replacement Points may only be
brought in at a rate of one per month (effectively
halving the number of available points).

[32.84] All of the above modifications and restric-
tions apply to anti-air TOE Strength Points and
Replacement Points. They do not affect non-anti-
air TOE Strength Points/Replacement Points that
possess an anti-air rating.

[32.9] ROAD AND TRACK STACKING
MODIFICATION

The Players ignore all Road and Track (only)
Stacking Point restrictions listed in Section 9.0.

ADDENDA

The following addenda to the rules and counters
of Campaign for North Africa are the result of
continuing testing and fine tuning by the
design/development team. In a game the size of
CNA, it is a virtual certainty that some points will
be in need of clarification — or even correction,
despite the most elaborate precautions. The
following addenda are included as the game goes
to press in order to provide the most up-to-date
game possible.

[3.1] (clarification) Parent Unit. The terms
Parent Unit and Parent Formation have been used
interchangeably. It was intended that they express
the following distinction: a Parent Unit has
counters attached while a Parent Formation has
counters assigned.

[3.4] (clarification) Coast Defense Guns. There
are three types of coast defense guns in CNA:

A. Inname only: A number of units possess the ti-
tle of Coastal Defense Artillery that are nothing of
the sort. These may be distinguished by. the fact
that their guns possess CPA’s of 15. They were
simply artillery units (theoretically) assigned to a
coastal defense role. They may contain any type of
artillery.

B. Sited Guns: These units and/or TOE Strength
Points possess a CPA of ‘0+.’’ This indicates
that while the guns did not possess organic
transport, had transport been available, the guns
could have been moved with little trouble.

C. Emplaced Guns: The units and/or TOE
Strength Points possess a CPA of ‘‘0.’? This in-
dicates that the guns have been ‘‘fixed’’ in
revetments and may never be moved. Note that
there were emplaced guns at Benghazi that are not
represented in CNA due to their inability to fire at
shoreward targets coupled with the game restric-
tion as to how far west Commonwealth warships
may operate.

[3.6] LIMITED INTELLIGENCE
(addition)

CNA relies heavily on the Players’ willingness to
trust one another. Virtually all of the information
in the game is kept hidden from your opponent.
Even in land combat, only the totals are revealed,
not the units producing them.

{3.61] Players are not entitled to any knowledge
of the status, composition, or any other attributes
of any opposing counter in CNA except as express-
ly indicated in the rules.

[3.62] The following is a partial listing of the in-
formation available to opposing Players:

Map. A Player may examine any stack of counters
on the game map. What is in those counters is
another story.

Anti-armor Fire. The types of tanks and self-
propelled guns, presence of armored recce-type
and/or halftracks actively participating in Assault
in a hex but not the numbers, hex(es) of origin or
which TOE Strength Points absorbed the Damage
Points.

Close Assault. The unit types actively par-
ticipating in Close Assault (or forced into it via

Overrun) but not the numbers, weapon systems
what took losses, etc.

?

Prisoners. Nothing. All you get is the prisoners
and captured equipment; they may not be quizzed.

Patrol. No mention of the state of supplies or at-
tached trucks (other than whether the unit is
motorized).

Broken down vehicles/destroyed tanks/abandon-
ed vehicles. The contents of the marker is secret.

POW’s/POW Camps/Guards. The numbers (and
nationality, if Axis) are secret.

Construction, The item undergoing construc-
tion/demolition is secret.

Trucks & Replacement Points. The numbers,
types, etc., are secret.

Air reconnaissance. Even less detail than Patrol.

Planes. The Players are entitled to know the exact
makes of opposing planes engaged in air-air
combat but the pilot ratings are secret up to the in-
stant of combat. Land units without any Anti-air
TOE Strength Points or an SGSU in a hex in which
a bombing or strafing mission occurs are not en-
titled to know the numbers or types of planes
engaged in the mission(s), only the type of mission
being performed.

[12.0] (clarification) For the purposes of this Sec-
tion, all references to artillery units apply to any
unit comprised of TOE Strength Points with a
Barrage Rating.

[12.23] (addition) Commonwealth warships are
always considered to be historically identified
targets.

[12.46] (clarification) Trucks do not receive ter-
rain benefits.

[14.0] (clarification) Anti-armor fire occurs
within a hex occupied by the non-Phasing Player’s
units. However, either Player may be the attacker
and/or the defender.

[14.15] (addition) A parenthesized anti-armor
rating may only be used if there are no units com-
prising TOE Strength Points possessing non-
parenthesized anti-armor ratings. Note that
replacement points do not affect this ability.

[14.27] (clarification) The Phasing Player may
send TOE Strength Points from a unit into dif-
ferent hexes, regardless of whether all are engaging
in anti-armor or all in close assault.

[16.51] (clarification) Note that the Patrolling
Player does not identify the types of TOE Strength
Points comprising the unit. Example: A tank bat-
talion comprising four Shermans, two Stuarts,
and two Mark VI Lights (8 TOE Points) can be
simply reported as a tank battalion of six points (8
+ 2 points).

[19.62] (addition) Any eliminated unit whose
maximum TOE Limit is one or two TOE Strength
Points. If the unit’s assigned spot has been taken
by the time it is recreated, it is treated as an in-
dependent unit.

[20.63] The Axis Player is required to schedule at
least fwo weeks in advance, those Replacement
Points (from his Axis Replacement Pool) he is sen-

ding to NorthAfrica via the Axis naval convoys.
Replacement Points may be scheduled to arrive
during any OpStage of a Game-Turn, as per the
naval convoy rules. For example, Replacement
Points arriving during the third week of August,
1941 must be scheduled for Axis naval convoys in
the first week of August’s Naval Convoy Schedule
Phase. (Players should note that the maximum
tonnage that the Axis naval convoys of the third
week of August is determined during the second
week of August!)

[21.11] (addition) TOE Strength Points compris-
ing a headquarters unit are not subject to
breakdown, regardless of type.

[21.63] (clarification) Any portion of the broken
down vehicles in a hex may be towed. However, if
only some are towed, the owning Player will have
to place an additional marker in the new location
and adjust his information on the control sheet
(see Case 21.67).

[21.67] (addition) Players should avoid pro-
liferating masses of broken down vehicles and
destroyed tank markers over the game map.

[23.15] (addition) The Commonwealth Player
receives, via the Reinforcement Track, two tank
battalions completely refitted (re-equipped) with
Scorpion tanks (historically the 42nd and 44th
Royal Tank Regiments). These two battalions are
engineer units but possess only anti-minefield
capabilities. Each battalion is considered to
possess engineer unit status while it contains at
least six Scorpion TOE Strength Points. Note that
the points may not be transferred to other units for
any reason, including the elimination of the
‘‘tank’’ battalion.

[24.79] (addition) A maximum of one flying boat
facility and one non-flying boat facility may be
built in any hex. Air landing strips and flying boat
alighting areas may be upgraded to airfield and
flying boat basin status respectively. However, the
facility may not be used while the upgrading is
underway and no benefit in reduction of construc-
tion is applied.

[27.32] (clarification) This includes pipeline in
railroad hexes (although the railroad itself may not
be harmed by a raid).

[30.36] (addition) If the warship is eliminated
while transporting a commando unit, the com-
mando unit is also eliminated.

COUNTER ADDENDA

Counter Section Nr. 1

A. The following headquarters units are missing
their identifying stripe: 63 Cir, 157 (63), 158 (63),
64 Cat, 141 (64), 142 (64), 101 Tst, 65 (101), 66
(101), 9 Brs (101), 102 Trn, 61 (102), 62 (102), 7 Brs
(102), Ariete, 132 RC (Ariete), 8 Brs (Ariete), Lit-
torio, 133 RC (Littorio), 12 Brs (Littorio), and the
136 GGFF.

B. The 101st Trieste Division’s divisional and
regimental headquarters counters (i.e., 102 Tst,
65, and 66) should show a motorized infantry in-
stead of mechanized infantry symbols. -

C. The 2/8Brs (Ariete) Anti-tank Battalion is
assigned directly to the Ariete’s divisional head-
quarters and should bear a counter abbreviation
and parent formation indicator of “‘2 (Ariete).’’ It
is correctly listed on the Ariete’s OA Sheet.

D. 141st Regiment of the 64th Catanzaro Division
is missing its organization size indicator of “‘IIf.’’

E. The IV/66 (101st Trieste) Company should
show Heavy Weapons and not an Anti-tank sym-
bol.

45

