14

CO

therefore, required to base a certain percentage of
his Bombers in either Italy, Sicily or Crete. Boxes
for these are provided on the game-maps, as are
their flight distances. There are also certain restric-
tions pertaining to missions based in the Mediter-
ranean, in terms of fighter support.

[43.1] AXIS MEDITERRANEAN
BOMBER BASE REQUIREMENTS

[43.11] At least 75% of all German He 111’s,
Ju88D’s and FW220’s must be based in Mediter-
ranean Bases.

[43.12] Until 1/35 Game-Turn 1941, 75% of all
German bombers must be based in Italy/Sicily.
[43.13] From June 1/35 Game-Turn 1941 to the
end of the game at least 50% of all Helll’s,
Ju88’s, and FW220’s must be based in Crete; the
remaining 25% may be based in Sicily/Italy or in
Crete.

[43.14] It takes one OpStage to transfer from Italy
to Sicily and/or to Crete, and vice-versa.

[43.2] MEDITERRANEAN BASE
RESTRICTIONS AND
CAPABILITIES

[43.21] German Bombers based in Italy/Sicily
and Crete do not need SGSU’s. All their re-
quirments are met by the specific ‘‘Box’’ they are
in, including fuel and ammunition. The Axis
Player does not expend fuel or ammo for these
planes. However, all planes must be refitted (38.3)

[43.22] When refitting planes as per 38.37 (per
Squadron), the Axis Player should divide all
bombers in a given area into groups of 6 to 12, con-
sidering each such group a squadron.

[43.23] Bombers based in Crete must be used to
attempt to raid the Suez Canal area (not on the
game-maps) each month. This is handled abstract-
ly in that during four OpStages within a given
month there may be zo bombing missions flown
from Crete . There is no effect on the game of such
missions (as they had little effect operationally on
the Commonwealth, other than harrassment and
extended work hours). There are also no losses.

[43.24] Bombers flying from Crete may not
receive any protective CAP from planes in Africa.
They fly ‘‘naked’’.

[43.25] Bombers based in Italy/Sicily may co-
ordinate with African-based fighters for CAP.
They may also be used in raids on Malta (see 44.0).

[44.0] MALTA

COMMENTARY:

The importance of the tiny island of Malta to the
campaign in North Africa cannot be understated.
Lying, as it does, astride the Axis Shipping Lanes,
it provided the Commonwealth with an excellent
position from which to hinder the transport of
Axis supplies and reinforcement.

GENERAL RULE:

The Commonwealth has several air facilities on
Malta on which he may base planes for strikes at
Axis convoys and bases. In retaliation, the Axis
may attempt to reduce the effectiveness of Malta
by bombing the island. The Axis Malta reduction
effort is controlled by external policies which have
been abstracted into several charts proscribing the
extent of such effort. Likewise, the Axis may not
invade Malta — at least not in this game. Planes
performing missions over Malta must be assigned
a specific hex.

[44.1] THE MALTESE AIR BASES

[44.11] The map of Malta represented on Game-
Map ‘‘A’’ is not in the samé scale as the African
portions of the game-maps, nor is it in scale in
terms of geographic location vis-a-vis the African

coast. The air distances to key points in Africa are
listed in the Malta Box. The map-of Malta itself
shows different terrain and cities, mostly for
historical purposes. The only items of importance
on the Malta map are the air facilities and the port
of Valetta.

[44.12] Maltese air facilities are printed directly
on the game-map (unlike most others). They are
permanent and may never be moved. No further
air facilities may be built on Malta. Although they
may not be destroyed, Maltese air facilities may be
reduced (by Axis bombing) to zero effectiveness.

[44.13] The initial capacity of Maltese air bases is
given in each scenario. It may be increased—up to
the standard levels—by using the Maltese Air
Facility Construction Table (44.5) The Com-
monwealth Player may use the table once each
Game-Turn for each air facility on Malta, the
table informing the Commonwealth Player how
many ‘‘levels’’ he may construct for each facility.
No supplies need be expended.

[44.14] The Commonwealth Player does not
need—nor does he use—SGSU’s on Malta. Each
“‘level’’ of air facility can handle up to 18 planes of
any type. Thus an airfield operating at maximum
capacity (6 levels) could handle 108 planes.
However, for the sake of play ease, the Com-
monwealth Player should group his planes as if
they were squadrons.

[44.15] Planes on Malta may be moved from one
field to another without flying. Such a movement
is not considered a mission and happens ‘‘outside”’
the play sequence. In essence, the Commonwealth
Player simply moves his squadrons or planes from
one field to the other at the beginning of the
OpStage, noting such movement on his squadron
sheets, prior to any missions being flown. The
Axis Player need not be informed of such moves.
[44.16] Planes based on Malta do not need fuel or
ammo; they are automatically refueled and rearm-
ed each Stage. However, they must be refit like ail
other planes, using the same method as all other
planes.

[44.17] Commonwealth planes may transfer to
and from Malta and the African fields, provided
they have the range.

[44.18] The Commonwealth Player may divert
AA/Flak points (Replacements) to Malta. For
each light AA Flak point he diverts to Malta he
receives one AA Point on Malta; for each heavy
AA point he diverts he receives four AA points on
Malta. These points: come from the Com-
monwealth Replacement Pool for AA points. No
more than one AA Replacement Point (Light or
Heavy) may be diverted to Malta per Month, and
the maximum AA point capacity of Malta is 48
AA points.

No flak counters are placed on the Malta map; the
Commonwealth Player simply notes which bases
have how many Flak Points. Any losses from
bombing are noted as they occur. Flak points may
move between airfields/strips as planes do in 44.15
but flak/AA units may not be moved between
Malta and the mainland.

[44.2] AXIS ATR RAIDS ON MALTA

[44.21] Axis bombers based in Italy/Sicily as well
as any African-based Axis planes that can reach
the island can raid Malta, bombing the Maltese air
facilities to reduce their capability to refit planes.

[44.22] In addition, to 44.21 the Axis may draw
on Italian and German aircraft based permanently
in Italy and Sicily (and otherwise not available to
the Axis Player). These planes are reflected by the
Axis Malta Availability Levels. (See 44.41.)

[44.23] There are four Axis Malta Availability
Levels, representing the levels of Axis commit-
ment to Malta. Each level gives the number of
Game-Turns during the Campaign Game that that
portion may be used. Each shorter scenario has
separate listings. No Availability Level may ever
be used more Game-Turns than it is listed as
available. It is up to the Axis Player to plan his
raids according to what he wants to accomplish
and when he want to doit.

[44.24] Axis Raids on Malta take place in the
Strategic Air Phase of the Game-Turn, and thus
occur only once per Game-Turn. (This is, admit-
tedly, somewhat abstract—and the various Malta
tables reflect this abstraction.) The Axis Player
chooses the planes in the game he wishes to bomb
Malta with by consulting the portion of the Malta
Availability Table of his choice (44.23). He assigns
each squadron to a-specific airfield in Malta and
conducts each bombing and/or strafing raid nor-
mally—including air-to-air and AA/flak.

[44.25] To compute how many — and what types
— of planes he may use, the Axis Player uses the
Axis Malta Table (44.42). In addition to the planes
he receives from this Table he may then add in —
up to the maximums he gets from the Table — any
planes he wishes from Africa. In essence, the
Table shows the Axis Player how many of his
planes in the game, but in Italy/Sicily he may use
plus how many planes not in the game (for normal
use) but available nonetheless that may be added
to this total. The two are combined to provide the
number of Planes Available, to which are added
any Africa-based planes. If, at any time, the Axis
Player does not wish to bomb Malta he is con-
sidered to have used Level I (which is unlimited).

[44.26] In using the Axis Malta Availability
Tables, the Axis Player always assigns his map-
based planes after determining how many planes
he will get from the tables.

[44.27] In no case may the Axis Player assign
more planes of any one type from map bases than
are assigned from the Availability Tables. That is,
if the table says 6 S.M. 81’s may be used, the Axis
Player may add in no more than 6 map-based SM
81’s. Furthermore, if a plane is not assigned from
the table it may not be assigned from the map.

Example: The Axis Player decides to launch a
Level III raid on Malta. He has, based in Italy and
Sicily, 12 SM 79’s, 6 BR 20’s, 16 CR 42’s, and 4
CR 32’s. He consults the table and rolls a ‘‘6’’. As
per the number ot the left of the slash he may
assign 50% of these available planes to the mis-
sion. He may add to this, as per the percentage to
the right of the slash, a number of planes equal to
(100%) what he has based in Italy/Sicily. These
planes are not actually in the game but have been
provided by the Axis in Europe. In essence, the
Axis player now has available 150% of the total
planes he has based in Italy/Sicily. He may also
add to this the same number of planes (or less) —
by type — as he has available from the above from
bases in Africa.

[44.28] To determine what losses are are absorbed
by planes actually in play — as opposed to those
taken by planes that are used only for Malta bom-
bing as per 44.4 — the player must obtain a ratio
between the planes he uses that come from (1)
Africa, plus (2) the percentage to the left of the
slash on the Table, and compare that total to the
planes he uses from the percentage to the right of
the slash on the table (i.e., those planes not really
in the game but available for bombing Malta).
This ratio is used to obtain an Actual Loss Percen-
tage, which is then applied to any total losses
(from the CRTf’s), rounding up. The Axis Player
applies this revised (and usually lower) loss

number to those planes he actually has in the
game. Planes not actually in play never take losses;
they are an applied constant.

Example: The Axis Player has one squadron of
Ju88A’s from Benina and two squadrons of
Ju88A’s from the Malta Availability Table. All
squadrons have 12 planes, for a total of 33% of the
total comes from Benina. The three squadrons at-
tempt to bomb Lugqa airfield. The squadrons lose 6
planes to air-to-air and 2 to flak. In addition, 2 are
forced to abort, a factor not considered—simply
noted—when determining who takes losses. 33%,
rounded up, of 8 means 3 bombers from Benina
have been shot down. The number of bombers lost
in Italy/Sicily from the Availability Table is not
considered.

[44.29] The Axis Player may, after rolling on the
Table, decide not to raid. The raid is cancelled, but
he still has used the table he rolled for
once—regardless of whether he cancels or not (see
Case 44.23.) In such a case, the Axis Player may
not, of course, use map-based planes.

[44.3] INVASION OF MALTA

Realizing the importance of Malta to the Axis sup-
ply effort, the German High Command con-
templated invading Malta on several occasions,
even going so far as to set a definite date.
However, that plan was aborted when Rommel
borrowed the air cover assigned to such invasion
for his thrust to take Tobruk—and then never
returned them. In any case, the German High
Command had deep reservations about an inva-
sion of the strongly-defended island, and given the
fearsome losses taken by German paratroopers on
Crete it is more than likely that the Germans never
would have carried their planned invasion through
to the end. They certainly would have received lit-
tle valuable support from the Italians who, despite
several professed ‘‘airborne’’ divisions (like the
Folgore) had little practice in this sort of thing. It is
mainly for these reasons that—at least in this
game—the Axis Player may not invade Malta.
Sorry.

[44.4] STRATEGIC AIR RAIDS ON
MALTA
(see Charts & Tables)

[44.41] Axis Strategic Airforce
Commitment Chart
(see Charts & Tables)

[44.42] Axis Malta Availability Table
(see Charts & Tables)

[44.5] MALTA AIR FACILITY
CONSTRUCTION TABLE
(see Charts & Tables)

[45.0] AIR-TO-AIR COMBAT

GENERAL RULE:

Although CNA uses individual planes, the resolu-
tion of air-to-air combat is done on an operational
level, with much abstracted (in terms of plane
ability, etc.). Air-to-air combat occurs before
flak/AA fire and before completing any missions.
Essentially, only fighters with non-parenthesized
tacair ratings my initiate air-to-air combat, and
fighters on offensive CAP must initiate Air-to-air
combat. Air-to-air combat is resolved by compar-
ing tacair ratings, augmented by the pilot ratings,
and further adjusted by any difference in
maneuver ratings. Bombers’ tacair ratings may be
augmented if they are formation flying. Planes
resolve air-to-air in pairs, one plane against
another, and all combat takes place within the hex.

PROCEDURE:

The Players first determine which planes in the hex
will be engaging in air-to-air. This means all
scrambles must be performed first. Each Player
then declares whether or not he wishes to initiate
air-to-air, with any player having planes on offen-
sive CAP forced to initiate. Fighter vs fighter (or
screen) combat takes’place before fighters may at-
tack any Enemy bombers/transports, etc. (unless
they are unescorted).

Having determined the planes involved, the
Players now decide who will be the Attacker (see
Case 45.16). (Remember, all Missions are flown
simultaneous). The defender places all his planes
being attacked down on a flat surface,using
available aircraft counters (see 34.75). The at-
tacker now allocates his attacking fighters against
the defending planes. Each individual air-to-air
combat is now resolved, using the Air-to-Air Com-
bat Tables. After attacking fighters have attacked
escorts/screens they may, if possible, now attack
the bombers/transports. After all air-to-air is
resolved, players complete their missions (after, of
course, undergoing flak/AA fire.)

All opposing planes involved in air-to-air combat
are individually ‘‘matched up’’, (see Case 45.2).
The Players now determine each airplane’s tacair
differential. In order to do this, the Players first
adjust the tacair rating of their aircraft in one of
two possible ways:

a) For each fighter, the owning Player adds the

rating of the pilot to that of his plane.

b) For each bomber, add to the tacair rating

any applicable formation flying bonus: if
6-17 bombers are on the mission, add one to
each bomber’s tacair rating; if 18 or more
bombers are on the mission, add two to each
plane’s tacair rating. (Note: Dive bombers
are not eligible for formation flying
bonuses.)

Each Player now subtracts the adjusted tacair
rating of the Enemy plane from his own plane’s
adjusted rating. This is the tacair differential. The
tacair differential is now adjusted for each plane
to account for the relative difference in
manueverability of the planes. The manueverabili-
ty rating of the less manueverable plane (the lower
rating) is subtracted from that of the higher, and
the Maneuver Adjustment Chart is consulted to
obtain the appropriate maneuver adjustmenr.
This Maneuver Adjustment number is added to
the tacair differential of the plane with the higher
maneuverability rating and subtracted from the
tacair rating of the plane with the lower maneuver-
ability rating. (Note: If the maneuver ratings are
equal, no such adjustment is possible.) Thus, if
prior to the adjustment for maneuver ratings one
plane had a tacair differential of -3 and the other
+3, but the plane with the lower tacair differential
had a maneuver rating 16 points higher than the se-
cond plane, then the tacair differentials would be
adjusted, respectively, from -3 to +1 and from
+3 to -1, since the Manuever Adjustment Chart
calls for an adjustment of ‘‘4’”’ in favor of the
plane with the higher manuever rating.

In fighter vs. fighter match-ups, the fire of the
plane with the ‘‘minus’’ tacair differential is
resolved first. (For ‘‘0’’ differentials, the plane
with the highest rated pilot is considered to fire
first, or if that is a tie, the attacking Player’s
plane.) If there is more than one fighter attacking
one Enemy Fighter, the lone fighter fires first. In
fighter vs. non-fighter, the non-fighter plane’s at-
tack is always resolved first.

Using the final adjusted tacair differentials, the
Players refer to the tacair Kill Table (45.5), and the
Player firing first rolls two dice and combines the
results sequentially to obtain a result (e.g., ‘‘2”’,
“4? equals ‘*24’°). If the result falls within the kill

range given on the table corresponding to the ap
propriate tac air differential, the opposing plane
has been shot down. Otherwise, the opposing
Player with the aircraft with the positive tacair dif
ferential gets to fire. If his dice roll result falls
within the kill range as delineated on the TacAir
Kili Table, the first plane is shot down; if not, then
there is no result. (Note: Non-fighters fire in divi-
dually at each Enemy fighter that is matched
against them; fighters may never fire at more than
one plane, even if attacked by more than one.)

Figure A:
PLAYERA $
Plane Nr./Type x & x
1 Gladiator MkII 1 2 27
2 Gladiator MkII 0 2 27
3. Tomahawk 0 2 32
4 Tomahawk 0 2 32
5 Hurricane MkI 0 4 32
6 Hurricane MkI 3 4 32
7 Hurricane MkI 1 4 32
8 Hurricane MkI 0 4 32
9 Beaufighter MkIF 0 11 30
Figure B:
PLAYER B é
¥ ¥ ¢
Plane Nr./Type es +
A Fiat C. R. 42 Falco i 3 28
B Fiat C. R. 42 Falco 0 3 28
Cc Messerschmitt Bf. 100 2 5 32
D Me Bf 110 1 5 32
E MeBf 110 0 65 32
J Me Bf 109E 2 6 34
K Me Bf 109 E 1 6 34
L Me Bf 109 F 0 6 39
Figure C:
PLAYER A’S PLANES
1 2 3 4 =5 667 8 9
D E G H I JI K L B
A Cc M
F

PLAYER B’S PLANES

The preceding is an illustration of determining the
plane match-ups in the following example of
planes about to engage in air-to-air combat. Player
A (Commonwealth) possesses nine planes while
Player B (Axis) possesses thirteen planes, making
the former the defender and the latter the attacker
for this particular group of air-air combats.

Figure: The Commonwealth Player has two
Gladiator MkII’s, one piloted by a 1 pilot; two
Tomahawks; four Hurricane MkI’s, one piloted
by a 3 pilot and one by a 1 pilot; and one
Beaufighter Mk IF. The Commonwealth Player
numbers his planes (for convenience) in ascending
order by combat worth. Within the numbers
assigned to each type of plane he randomly deter-
mines the rank of the pilot handling the aircraft.

Figure B: While the Commonwealth Player is
listing his planes the Axis Player is performing the
same actions. His job is slightly easier as he is not
troubled by having to jumble his pilot ratings.

Note that if either or both Players possess
identical aircraft with identically rated pilots that
arrived in this particular hex from different
squadrons the owning Player would have to in-
dicate the parent squadron for each of those
planes.

15

16

Figure C: The Commonwealth Player an-
nounces the type number and ID numbers for each
of his planes without stating the pilot’s rank. The
Axis Player then matches up his planes in any pat-
tern and order against the Commonwealth
Player’s aircraft, making sure that each Com-
monwealth aircraft is opposed by at least one Axis
aircraft. In the case of a plane being attacked by a
number of planes and only able to shoot back at a
single one of the attackers (this particular type of
example), he names the order in which the multiple
attacks on the opposing aircraft are to be perform-
ed (as the defender may only shoot at one of the at-
tacking planes). The Players then proceed to
resolve the individual air-to-air combats.

Note that in this example the Axis Player has
apparently decided to take the long view, with the
worst plane (Italian C. R. 42) being sacrificed to
the Beaufighter and ganging up on the two worst
(pilot distribution being equal) Commonwealth
planes.

CASES:

[45.1] HOW AND WHEN AIR-TO-AIR
COMBAT OCCURS

[45.11] Air-to-air combat takes place within a
hex. Only planes in a given hex may engage in air-
to-air combat with each other, regardless of air
Zones of Control. (Remember, fighters with air
ZOC’s may move into an adjacent hex to engage in
air-to-air; if they are on offensive CAP in a hex
without opposing aircraft they must move into an
adjacent controlled hex to engage.)

[45.12] All planes in a given hex are subject to air-
to-air combat. However, there are priorities as to
who attacks whom, and when. The primary rule is
that only fighters or fighter-bombers on a fighter
combat mission may initiate air to air combat.

[45.13] Air-to-air combat occurs before
flack/AA fire and before any missions in that hex
may be completed. Remember, fighters may
scramble or intercept into a hex, and that must be
done before attempting to resolve air-to-air.

[45.14] If there are fighters in a hex on offensive
CAP, those fighters must attack all Enemy planes
in that hex. Thus, fighters on offensive CAP
automatically intiate air-to-air combat. If there
are no fighters on offensive CAP, both Players
must decide (secretly; to be revealed
simultaneously) whether they want to initiate com-
bat. If either Player decides to initiate combat,
combat is joined.

However, if neither Player desires air-to-air,
both Players send their aircraft home, and all mis-
sions in that hex are cancelled. (This is sort of a
free abort; planes may always try to abort even if
the other Player desires combat, but this is not
automatic. See 39.3.)

[45.15] Once air-to-air has been initiated, the
Players determine which planes, if any, are being
screened by Friendly fighter escort (planes flying
defensive CAP for the bombers, etc.). Only planes
flying a mission other than CAP may be screened.
Furthermore, planes flying a mission other than
CAP are automatically screened, unless they have
no escort. Planes without Friendly defensive CAP
are not screened. The Players now set the screened
units aside, and engage in air-to-air with their
fighters on CAP.

[45.16] The Players must now decide who is the
attacker. The Player with the most fighters (pure
numbers) is the Attacker in all situations. In the in-
stance where both Players have the same number
of fighters, the Player with initiative for that
Game-Turn (7.0) is the attacker. At this point,
Players attempt to abort any missions they desire
to abort. See 39.3.

[45.17] A plane without ammo (bombs aside) may
not fire in Air-to-Air combat. However, its normal
ratings are still used to resolve the effects of oppos-
ing fire.

[45.18] Players now resolve the first wave of air-
to-air combat (45.2). Once this is completed, the
screened planes may be attacked. (See 45.3). This
is resolved in the same way, with certain restric-
tions and changes.

[45.19] A plane assigned to a particular match-up
may never be switched to another match-up, even
if the plane it was matched-up against is shot down
before it has a chance to fire.

[45.2] FIGHTER VS FIGHTER

[45.21] In resolving air-to-air combat between
fighters (planes with nonparenthesized tacair
ratings), the Player follows the general outline of
the Procedure augmented as below.

[45.22] The Defender places his fighters down on
a flat surface, using the aircraft counters. He then
states what type of plane (e.g. Mel09F, CR42,
etc.) each fighter counter represents. He does not
reveal the rating of his pilot at this time.

[45.23] The attacker must now assign at least one
fighter to every fighter the defender has placed
down. Once every defending fighter is ‘‘covered’’,
the attacker may assign more than one fighter toa
defending fighter. There is no limit to the number
of attacking fighters that may engage a solitary
defending fighter, as long as all the defending
fighters are attacked.

[45.24] Each individual air-to-air match-up is
now resolved (45.5). A defending fighter may
fire at only (any) one attacking fighter, while, if
there is more than one fighter attacking a defen-
ding fighter they all may fire at the defending
plane. However, all air-to-air combat is resolved
individually. No planes ever add their strengths
together. The Players may resolve the individual
match-ups in any order they wish.

[45.25] After fighter vs fighter has been resolved,
there is a possibility that some of the fighters may
fire, again, against enemy bombers and other
screened planes (See 45.3).

[45.3] FIGHTER VS NON-FIGHTER
(SCREENED PLANES)

[45.31] When all fighter vs fighter combat has
been finished, Friendly fighters remaining may, if
possible (see Case 45.32) attack any Enemy screen-
ed planes. They do not have to do so, even if they
are on offensive CAP—unless only non-fighter
planes were in the hex to start with (and so there
was no fighter vs. fighter combat). In such case,
offensive CAP fighters must initiate air-to-air with
such unscreened planes.

[45.32] If the Player wishing to attack screened
planes has more fighters remaining (after fighter
vs. fighter combat) in the hex than does the Enemy
Player, he may attack the screened planes with the
excess number of fighters; e.g., the Axis Player
sends a squadron of Helll’s escorted by 6 Me
Bfl09F’s to a Target. The Commonwealth Player
scrambles two squadrons of Hurricane JIC’s. The
Hurricanes attack the Messerschmitts, and, after
fighter vs fighter combat, there are 19 Hurricanes
remaining along with 5 Messerschmitts. The Com-
monwealth Player may now take any of his 14 ex-
cess Hurricanes (19-5=14) and attack the
Heinkels. The 14 Hurricanes are now engaging ina
second round of air-to-air.

[45.33] The Defender is automatically the Player
with the screened planes. He places his planes
down as in 45.22. The attacker may now assign his
fighters in amy way he sees fit; he does not have to
cover all the defender’s planes, as in 45.23. He

may take, using the above example, all 14 Hur-
ricanes and attack one of the Henkels, or he may
divide them amongst the 12 Henkels. The choice is
the attacker's.

[45.34] Air-to-air fighter vs non-fighter is resolv-
ed in the same way as fighter vs fighter (see 45.2)
with one exception: defending, screening planes
may shoot at each and every fighter attacking that
plane — not just one, as in 45.24. (A dive bomber
may shoot at one attacking fighter.)

[45.35] Any screened planes that survive may now
proceed to the flak/AA fire portion of the mission
Tun.

[45.36] Bombers flying in formation receive a
bonus: if 6-17 bombers are on the mission, add one
to each plane’s tacair rating; if 18 or more
bombers are on the mission add two to each
plane’s tacair rating.

Examples of Air-to-Air Combat Resolution:

a. ACR 42anda Hurricane I engage in air-to-air.
The CR 42 has a ‘3’ pilot for a total tacair of ‘6’
(34+3=6), while the Hurricane has a ‘2’ pilot
for a total of ‘6’ (4+ 2=6). But the Maneuver
Rating of the Hurricane is four better than that
of the CR 42 (32 to 28), so this gives an adjust-
ment of 2 tacair points in favor of the Hur-
ricane. The final tacair differential is +2 forthe
Hurricane, — 2 for the CR 42. The CR 42 fires
first at ~2, needing an 11 or 12 fora kill. He
rolls a 25 and misses. (Had he rolled a ‘12’ the
combat would have been over.) Now the Hur-
ricane rolls, needing an 11-22 to get a kill. If
both miss, there is no more rolling.

b. Three Hurricane HB’s attack a Junker Ju88D,
flying in a formation of 12. Each Hurricane
has a ‘2’ pilot. The Hurricane has a tacair of
‘6’, plus ‘2’ for the pilot. The Ju88 has a tacair
of ‘5’, plus one more for formation flying.
That gives the Hurricane a differential of +2.
However, the Hurricanes have an 11 point
maneuver advantage, for a further adjustment
of 3 points, making the final differential for
each Hurricane + 5. The Junker 88 fires first at
each Hurricane. If he rolls an 11 he scores a
kill. Then each Hurricane fires at the Ju88,
needing an 11-26 fora kill.

[45.4] MANUEVER ADJUSTMENT
CHART
(See Charts & Tables)

[45.5] TACAIR KILL TABLE
(see Charts & Tables)

[45.6] PLANE AND PILOT
RECOVERY (see Charts and Tables)

[45.61] In certain cases fighters shot down during
air-to-air, as well as planes strafed on the ground
(40.63), may be recovered.

[45.62] For planes strafed on the ground, the
Player expends 1 Stores Point and 1 Fuel Point for
every plane he wishes to attempt to repair. He then
throws one die; if die roll is ‘‘1’’ or ‘‘2’’, the plane
is repaired. Any other number and the plane is per-
manently destroyed. In this case supplies are ex-
pended only if the repairs are succesful! For the
plane to be repaired, the supplies must be expend-
ed, Any strafed plane may be repaired in this
fashion, and once repaired that plane may fly one
full Game-Turn later.

[45.63] For fighters (only) shot down (by either
Enemy planes or flak) the Player rolls only one
die. In this case, a roll of ‘1’ means the fighter ac-
tually was not shot down and has managed to limp
back to base. (This roll is the same used for
recovery of the pilot (45.66); thus if a ‘1’ is thrown,
both the pilot and fighter return. On a 2, only the
pilot makes it back.)

[45.64] Once the fighter has returned
(from 45.63), the Player must attempt to repair
it. He uses the same system as in 45.62, but in this
instance no die roll is needed to repair the plane;
simply expending the supplies will do.

[45.65] Fighters recovered and repaired in this
fashion are not ‘‘kills’’ for the purposes of 40.18.

[45.66] If a plane is shot down, the pilot may bail
out and survive. For each fighter that is shot
down, the owning Player rolls one die. If a ‘*1”’ or
“2”? is obtained, the pilot survives and is
recovered, regardless of where the plane was shot
down. He is ready for action three Operations
Stages later. Otherwise, the pilot is killed.

[45.7] EXTENDED RANGE

Certain aircraft have more than one maneuver
rating. Such an aircraft must utilize the lower
maneuverability rating if on a mission at extended
range, unless the Player makes a decision to jet-
tison the extended range fuel tank. In that case, the
higher maneuverability rating may be used in air-
to-air combat, but the plane cannot return to any
air facility that is beyond its normal range. If out
of range of any Friendly air facility, the plane must
be crash landed (see Case 37.23)—if it survives the
combat, that is. Fighter-bombers attacked by
Enemy planes while on bombing missions may jet-
tison their bombs to increase their Maneuver
Rating for Air-to-Air. The jettisoned bombs have
no effect.

[46.0] ANTI-AIRCRAFT FIRE

(FLAK)

1) | iw
74 HAA | | 52 LAA
GENERAL RULE: - :

Planes flying missions in a given hex must undergo
anti-aircraft fire, if there are Enemy units capable
of such in that hex. Generally, AA fire is con-
ducted ‘before a mission is undertaken and any
casualties taken before determining the effects of
that mission. AA fire is given in points, based on
capabilities of light or heavy AA (or flak) guns.
The number of AA points for each unit is deter-
mined by multiplying the TOE strength by the AA
rating. All AA units have Flak Points, and some
other HQ, artillery and heavy weapons units also
have flak/AA capability. A unit’s flak/AA rating
is listed in that unit’s Characteristics Chart Table
under the AA column. AA/flak fire consumes am-
munition.

PROCEDURE:

Anti-aircraft Fire occurs after all Air-To-Air com-
bat and Flak Suppression Missions have been com-
pleted. The Enemy Player divides the opposing
planes into Target Groups (46.26) and indicates
the number and type, but not Mission, of the
planes in each Target Group. The Friendly Player
may then attack the Target Groups in any order he
wishes. Each attack is performed separately and
all planes destroyed, aborted and Ammo expended
requirements are completed before the next attack
is performed. All anti-aircraft attacks are per-
formed using the Anti-Aircraft Combat Results
Table. The Friendly Player determines AA Points
of Air Facilities and which TOE Strength Points of
units with anti-aircraft Ratings are attacking a par-
ticular Target Group. The total Anti-Air points
are then determined (do not divide by ten!)

All anti-aircraft attacks are performed using the
Anti-Aircraft Combat Results Table (46.3).

All attacks on planes flying Fighter-type Mis-
sions are performed as follows: Roll two dice,
reading them sequentially. Read down the rows of

results in the Planes On Fighter-Type Missions sec-
tion of the CRT until one is found that contains
that dice roll. Read along the row to the right to
determine the number of planes in that Target
Group destroyed by anti-aircraft fire. The actual
planes in that Target Group that are destroyed
should be determined at random. The players may
use any method they wish as long as it is consistent
and mutually agreeable.

Example: The players alternate picking which
planes are destroyed. Example: Number the planes
in the Target Group from 11 to 66 and roll the dice
until enough different numbers are thrown to
match the number of planes to be eliminated and
then eliminate those planes whose number has
come up.

All attacks on planes not flying Fighter-Type
Missions (46.2.6a and 46.2.6b) are performed us-
ing the Planes on Other Missions section of the
anit-aircraft CRT as follows:

Prior to determining the results of AA fire the fir-
ing Player may have to adjust his AA Point col-
umn to account for the density of enemy planes
overhead. He consults the AA Density Adjust-
ment Chart, noting the total number of enemy
planes (other than fighters) in that hex. He then
adjusts the column — in his favor — if warranted.
Remember, Night Missions are done separately
from others.

The firing Player rolls two dice twice using the
same column, once to determine the number of
planes destroyed (using the rows of the same
name) and once to determine the number of planes
that Abort involuntarily (using the rows of the
same name). Determination of which planes are
destroyed and Aborted should be made by the
same method used for determining losses on
Fighter Missions. Aborted planes are determined
after all losses from destroyed planes are com-
pleted.

[46.1] FLAK/AA UNITS

[46.11] A large number of units have AA/Flak
capability; that is, they may fire at enemy planes.
A unit that has an AA Rating may so fire
(however, see Case 46.22). Most of these units are
called AA or Flak units, and are so delineated by
their unit symbol on the counter. However, many
other types of units have AA Ratings. These AA
Ratings are multiplied by the TOE Strength of the
unit to determine the Actual AA. Points that can
fire. (There is mo dividing by 10, as with other
strengths.) Any unit with an AA symbol on its
counter is called a Pure Flak unit (See 46.17.).

[46.12] A flak unit having a (parenthesized)
defense assault rating, defends against an assault
only if alone in the hex. Players should note that
the German 88’s and Italian 90mms have a defen-
sive assault rating and are treated as artillery units
with assault ratings when attacked.

[46.13] Unless specifically stated otherwise, flak
units are treated as artillery in terms of having
their own transport. There are some flak units’
without transport, and to ‘‘motorize’’ these units
requires trucks. Each Point of AA may be towed
by a medium truck point or a Heavy Truck Point.

[46.14] Flak/AA units require supplies like any
other unit. (They are treated as artillery). They
will, of course, use ammunition when firing.

[46.15] Certain combat units—in addition to
regular flak units—have AA/Flak Points. Certain
tanks and recce units have AA/Flak Points, and
these are points per TOE Strength Point (Thus, 5
TOE points of Sherman tanks would have 5
AA/Flak Points).

[46.16] Tanks may use their AA/Flak Points only
against fighters strafing units in that hex or against
dive bombers. They may not use their AA Points
against any other planes/missions.

[46.17] Pure AA/flak units (i.e., units that have
only AA Points) may stack freely in major cities;
they do not count against the stacking limits. In
addition, one pure AA/flak unit may stack freely
in an air landing strip hex, and three may stack
freely in an airfield.

[46.2] RESTRICTIONS ON ANTI-
AIRCRAFT FIRE

[46.21] Anti-aircraft fire may only be directed at
planes flying missions in the same hex as the units
and air facilities possessing an anti-aircraft ability.

[46.22] Infantry, recce, and tank units may fire
AA only at planes in the fighter mission, strafing
and/or dive bombing target group (see Case
46.26).

[46.23] Anti-aircraft fire occurs after all air-to-air
combat and flak suppression missions have been
performed.

[46.24] The planes fighters flying flak suppression
missions and those flying naval convoy recon-
naissance missions may not be attacked by anti-
aircraft fire.

[46.25] Opposing planes flying missions in a hex
must be grouped into target groups for anti-
aircraft fire purposes.

[46.26] The target groups are as follows:
a) Ali Enemy planes not assigned to fighter-type
missions and flying (normal) daytime missions
by each mission,
b) All Enemy planes not assigned to fighter-type
missions and flying night missions by each mis-
sion.
c) All Enemy planes assigned the fighter-type
missions of combat air patrol. Scramble and in-
terception flying daytime.
d) All Enemy planes assigned night fighter-type
missions of combat air patrol, scramble and in-
terception.
e) All planes flying fighter-type missions of
strafing and/or dive bombing.

[46.27] AA may be fired at as many target groups

as the owning Player wishes.

[46.28] Replacement Points may not use AA
ratings until absorbed by a unit.
[46.3] ANTI-AIRCRAFT COMBAT
RESULTS TABLE
(see Charts and Tables)

[46.4] FLAK ADJUSTMENT CHART
(see Charts and Tables)

[47.0] ABSTRACT LOGISTICS
RULES

The Players use the Abstract Logistics and Air
Rules (Section 32.0) except as modified below.

[47.1] SUPPLY UNITS AND SUPPLY

[47.13] Alloff-map (N. African and Mediterra-
nean) air facilities possess unlimited supplies for
aircraft maintenance.

[47.12] Cairo and Alexandria have unlimited sup-
plies for Commonwealth aircraft maintenance for
any-SGSU occupying a Cairo/Alexandria hex or
within supply range (see Case 47.13).

[47.13] An SGSU may draw supplies from any

friendly supply unit per Case 32.16 (or Cairo/
Alexandria) that is within 15 Capability Points.

[47.14] The Players receive regular (i.e., those
described in Section 32.0) and Depot supply units.
A Depot initially contains 180 Fuel and 40 Ammo
Points. It retains its Depot status until it contains

17

18

no more than 60 Fuel Points, at which time it is
treated as a regular supply unit. Depots may never
absorb fuel or ammo points. Supplies may be
withdrawn from a depot only for use by SGSU’s
and motorization points engaged in transporting
that depot (i.e., supplies may not be redistributed
to other supply units nor used by combat units or
motorization points not actively engaged in mov-
ing that depot).

[47.2] SUPPLY EXPENDITURES

[47.21] Only Gun-class units are required to ex-
pend ammo in order to fire at enemy aircraft. A
gun-class unit must expend | Ammo Point in order
to perform anti-aircraft fire against a target group.

[47.22] Fighter and fighter-bomber squadrons do
not require ammo expenditures to enable their
planes to use their TacAir and Bombload ratings.
Non-fighter squadrons are entirely rearmed with
the expenditure of one Ammo Point.

[47.23] Fighter/Fighter-bomber squadrons re-
quire the expenditure of one Fuel Point to refuel
the entire sqaudron. Axis non-fighter squadrons
require the expenditure of two Fuel Points in order
to refuel the squadron. Commonwealth non-
fighter squadrons require the expenditure of three
Fuel Points in order to refuel the squadron.

[47.3] MOVEMENT OF SUPPLY UNITS

{47.31] Fifty motorization points are required to
transport a depot.

[47.32] A depot may only be transported in the
Truck Convoy Movement Phase (i.e., it may not
be attached to a combat unit).

[47.33] A depot counts as two supply units if be-
ing transported by rail. The Commonwealth
Player'may not transport a depot by sea.

[47.34] The Axis Player may transport a depot by
Axis Coastal Shipping. Each depot requires 3,000
tons of coastal shipping.

[47.35] Regular supply units may be transported
by air. The Axis Player may air transport regular
supply units as follows: Any thirty planes with air
transport capability may transport a supply unit
containing up to 8 Ammo Points and up to 20 Fuel
Points, any sixty planes with transport capability
may transport a regular supply unit with any level
of supplies. The Commonwealth Player may air
transport regular supply units as follows: Any
twenty planes with transport capability may air
transport a supply unit containing up to 10 Ammo
and up to 25 Fuel Points. Any fifty planes with
transport capability may transport a regular sup-
ply unit with any level of supplies. Either player
may transport a dummy supply unit with any ten
planes with transport capability. Note that the
supply unit counter must be physically transferred
from one location to another.

[47:4] AVAILABILITY OF SUPPLY
UNITS

[47.41] The Axis Player receives Depot supply
units as an addition to the regular supply units pro-
duced by the Axis Simplified Supply Availability
Table. He receives one Depot for each regular sup-
ply unit produced.

[47.42] The Commonwealth Player receives
Depot supply units as an addition to the regular
supply units produced by the Commonwealth Sim-
ple Supply Availability Table. During time period
I he receives one Depot per game turn. During time
period II he receives two Depots per game-turn.
During time period III he receives three Depots per
game-turn.

[47.5] MOTORIZATION POINTS

[47.51] Cases 32.57 and 32.59 are ignored and
Case 32.56 is modified as follows: Motorization

Points may be attacked (and destroyed) as though
they are trucks as per the Strafing (Cases 40.5 and
40.6) and Land Support Bombing (Cases 41.2,
41.3 and 41.5) rules in the Air Game.

[47.52] The initial motorization points available
to the Players are calculated in the same manner as
listed in 32.5 except that Second/Third Line trucks
listed as available at air facilities are included in
the calculations.

[47.53] Motorization points may be received as
though they are truck replacements. The Players’
ability to bring in motorization points is equal to
their ability to bring in Medium plus Heavy Truck
Points (i.e., each medium/heavy truck point is
equal to one motorization point) as per the Axis
Truck Production Chart of the Axis Replacement
Pool and the Commonwealth Truck Production
Table of the Commonwealth Production System.

[47.6] SIMPLIFIED AXIS NAVAL
CONVOYS
These rules replace those listed in Case 32.6.

[47.61] In the abstract Logistics game system,
Axis Naval Convoys consist of all Supply Units,
Motorization Points and Replacement Points for
that Game-Turn. These items may be divided and
assigned to any Convoy Lane available, as per
rules for such assignment. There are no tonnage
limitations.

[47.62] The Axis Player may never assign more
than three regular and three depot supply units
and twenty-five motorization points to any one
Convoy Lane in any one Naval Convoy Stage.
Note that the Axis Player is limited by the Replace-
ment Pool as to the maximum number of replace-
ment points of each type of item that may be
assigned to Axis Naval Convoys (total) for arrival
during a particular Game-Turn.

[47.63] If the Commonwealth Player successfully
performs a Axis Naval Convoy reconnaissance
mission, he is informed as to the composition of
the convoy in total'number of: Regular supply
units, depot supply units, motorization points,
tank replacement points, infantry replacement
points, gun replacement points and armored
recce/armored car replacement points.

[47.64] Attacks against a convoy are carried out
as per the Axis Naval Convoy Bombing rules.

[47.65] The result of an attack on an Axis Naval
Convoy is modified as follows:

A/A result of 10% applies only to motorization
points and replacement points, rounding fractions
down for the former and rounding fractions up for
the latter.

B/A result of 20% applies to all items except
Depoit supply units, rounding fractions down.
However, at least one regular supply unit at one
point of each class of replacement point is always
eliminated.

C/A result of 30% or greater is applied as “B”’
above with the modification that at least one sup-
ply unit of any type must be eliminated (supply
units are considered as a total for loss determina-
tion).

[42.7] BOMBARDMENT OF THE
COMMONWEALTH FLEET

Ignore Case 32.7 Bombardment of the Com-

monwealth Fleet is carried out as per the Air Game

Rules. :

[42.8] STACKING MODIFICATIONS

[42.81] The Players ignore all Road and Track
(only) Stacking Point limits as listed in Section 9.0.
[42.82] The Players may stack one Depot supply

unit in addition to the regular supply unit stacking
limits listed in Case 32.14.

LOGISTICS
GAME

The Logistics Game allows the players to
realistically experience the constraints that actual-
ly applied to the armies which fought in North
Africa. Basically, there are four distinct ‘‘flavors’’
of supply in CNA: water, fuel, stores, and ammo.
The Logistics Game requires that players keep
track of the amount of each of these that each unit
possesses and consumes. Also included are detail-
ed naval convoy rules that cover the movement of
the supply types to Africa for the Axis and rules
covering the use of truck transport to move the
supplies.

The Logistics Game constitutes the heart and
soul of Campaign for North Africa. The entire
design emphasis is on recreating the difficulties of
supply in desert warfare. Overall commanders will
soon find out that their most important weapon is
not their tanks or their 88’s or their long-range
bombers; it is their Trucks.

Over a year of intensive testing has proven at
least one thing: no one can do well in this game if
he does not have a definitive grasp of the logistical
situation and, moreover, a far-sighted plan on
how to handle it. This goes double for the Axis
Player, who is often so far away from his base of
supply that it will seem to take forever just to
“‘feed”’ his troops. Players should learn to‘use the
three-tiered ‘“‘Line’’ system for their trucks, and
they must set up a system whereby trucks and the
shipment of supplies is handled with a maximum
of efficiency and speed. Any Stage in which sup-
plies are not constantly being moved forward is a
wasted three days (game-time). The thoughtful use
of Supply Dumps is an absolute must.

The general feeling that players will get
throughout the game, vis a vis the logistics,is
frustration (albeit more so on the part of the Axis
Player. than the Allied Player). The Axis Player
will have countless opportunities to smash weakly-
held Allied positions, only to find he has neither
the fuel the ammunition to carry out his plans;
they are somewhere on trucks 200-300 miles to his
rear. The player who best minimizes this problem
will most often be the winner.

Much research was done on the logistics portion
of the game. Statistics are available, but not in a
form that is easily translatable to game terms. The
supply needs, in terms of the points consumed and
needed, are based on basic computations using
weights and consumption figures (where
available). These figures were then extrapolated to
cover usage over the time scale in the game. This
was especially important when determining ratios
for fuel and ammunition for aircraft. Further-
more, complete information on fuel consumption
was not available on a goodly number of the bigger
planes. Another problem area was ammunition
usage. But the biggest prou.cm area, and the area
that is most abstracted for game purposes, is the
correlation between supplies used and weight of
supplies convoyed (by the Axis). Exact figures here
are rare, and much testing was spent on seeing
whether the numbers we came up with were
satisfactory.

All of the above is by way of giving the players a
little background on the logistics game. The supply
problem in CNA is extensive, and the work needed
to run it—in terms of the game—is just as exten-
sive. It is highly recommended that one player
from each side be assigned to this area, and this
area alone. Testing proved that rare was the player
who could handle military matters, strategy, tac-
tics, etc., and also coordinate supply for his
troops.

[48.0] SEQUENCE OF PLAY
(Logistics Game)

COMMENTARY:

It is possible to use the Logistics rules in concert
with the Land Game and omit the Air Game rules.
If that is the desire of the players, they should ig-
nore all part of the following Sequence marked
“Air Game Only.”’

GENERAL RULE:

Play of the game should proceed in accordance
with the following outline.

I. INITIATIVE DETERMINATION PHASE
The Players determine who will have the initiative
for the coming Game Turn. (See 7.0) The Player
going first within the Operations Stage (see below)
is known as ‘‘Player A’’ and the other is ‘‘Player
B.”

Il. STRATEGIC AIR PLANNING STAGE (Air
Game Only)

A. Designation Phase:
The Players assign their airplanes to fly Land Sup-
port or Strategic missions.

B. Axis Malta Availability Determination Phase
The Axis Player determines the amount of support
he will receive from his abstracted N. African
Theatre airforce for Raids on Malta.

C. Strategic Mission Assignment Phase

Planes designated as flying Strategic missions are
assigned. The Axis Player assigns his planes to
Raids on Malta or naval convoy protection. The
Commonwealth Player assigns his planes to naval
missions or Bombing Reserve.

D. Malta Raid Phase

The Axis Player resolves flak suppression, anti-
aircraft fire and bombing missions against Maltese
air facilities (Note that Commonwealth warships
stationed at Valetta may only be attacked by Land
Support Missions.)

lll. NAVAL CONVOY STAGE

A. Naval Convoy Schedule Phase

The Axis Player refers to the Axis Naval Convoy
Level Chart and then to the Axis Convoy Capacity
Table and rolls one die to determine the total ton-
nage available for the next Game-Turn. He then
plans what specific cargoes the convoys will carry
and their routes.

B. Convoy Resolution Phase (Segments 1 & 2: Air
Game Only)

1. Naval Convoy Reconaissance Segment: The
Allied Player resolves Strategic Convoy
Reconaissance missions.

2. Convoy Lane Assignment Segment: Axis con-
voy protection aircraft are assigned CAP missions
in specific Convoy Lanes. Commonwealth Bomb-
ing Reserve aircraft are assigned CAP, Flak Sup-
pression or Convoy Bombing missions in specific
convoy lanes.

3. Convoy Bombing Segment: All air-to-air com-
bat, Flak Suppression, anti-aircraft, and convoy
bombing is carried out.

IV. STORES EXPENDITURE STAGE

Both Players distribute and expend stores (Section
51.0) to eligible units requiring them. Units not
receiving required stores are noted. Players also
adjust fuel and water storage levels for any losses
as aresult of spillage or evaporation.

V. FIRST OPERATIONS STAGE

A. Initiative Declaration Phase

The Player who gained the initiative in Stage I now
states whether he will be ‘‘Player A’’ or ‘‘Player
B”’ for this particular Operations Stage.

B. Weather Determination Phase
The player with initiative rolls for weather (Section

29.0), All adjustments for unusual weather are
made at this time, including any additional
evaporation of fuel or water from hot weather.

C. Organization Phase
The following Segments are undertaken in any
order desired.
1. Water Distribution Segment: Players distribute
water to eligible units requiring such.
2. Reorganization Segment: Attachment and/or
assignment of reinforcement, replacements, or
any other non-assigned units including trucks may
be undertaken. Detachment of attached units may
also be done.
3. Attrition Segment: Reductions of any units
that have not been adequately supplied with water
or stores is undertaken.
4. Construction Segment:
a. Construction Completion Step: Any work
scheduled for completion is finished, markers
being removed or added as required. Units that
have completed construction may be freely
moved.
b. Construction Initiation/Continuation Step:
Any continuing or ensuing work on projects is
noted. Any units involved in such work may not
be moved (voluntarily) during the remainder of
the current Operations Stage.

a

. Training Segment:

a. Training Completion Step: Units and replace-
ment points completing a level of training are
noted and the effects applied.

b. Training Initiation/Continuation Step: Any
units beginning or continuing trainingare noted.
They may not be moved (voluntarily) in the re-
mainder of the Operations stage.

6. Supply Distribution Segment: Supplies in the
same hex as land units may be redistributed at this
time, subject to the maximum innate capacity of
the unit(s) and the hex. Trucks may be
loaded/unloaded.

7. Tactical Shipping Segment: Both players ex-
ecute the transport of cargo between African
poits. Note: Axis coastal ships are represented in
the game by counters. Allied coastal shipping is
not represented by counters, and is limited only by
the port capacities.

D. Naval Convoy Arrival Phase: All rein-
forcements, Replacement Points, and supplies
scheduled for arrival (and actually arriving) ap-
pear in their designated ports of arrival or entrance
hexes. Check Reinforcement Tables and convoy
rules. The Axis Player plans for the arrival of
future Replacement from the Axis Replacement.
In his first Naval Convoy Arrival Phase of each
month, the Commonwealth Player consults the
Commonwealth Production System and deter-
mines how many Replacement Points he will
receive two months hence and plans for their ar-
rival.

E. Commonwealth Fleet Phase:

1. Fleet Assignemts Segment: The Commonwealth
Player assigns his ships to any sea or coastal hexes
for bombardment purposes.

2.-Fleet Repair Segment: Any repair work on ships
is undertaken at this time.

F. Land Support Air Phase (Air Game only):

Only those planes assigned to land support mis-
sions may be used in this Phase.

1. Mission Assignment Segment: All planes that
are fueled may be assigned missions by the Player.
2. Mission Deployment Segment: Counters
representing each type of plane assigned a mission
are placed in their hex of assignment.

3. Air-to-air Combat Resolution Segment: Com-
bat between opposing aircraft, including any caus-
ed by scramble and interception, is resolved. Mis-

sion aborts may take place before combat resolu-
tion.

4. Flak Resolution Segment: Aircraft in the same
hex as Enemy anti-aircraft units undergo flak fire.
5. Mission Completion Segment: All missions
that can be completed (e.g., bombing, strafing,
etc.) are completed. Aborts may take place here,
too.

6. Return to Base Segment: All surviving aircraft
are returned to their base of origin (excepting
those on transfer missions and some other rare ex-
ceptions).

7. Tactical Maintenance Segment: Both Players
may attempt to ready all planes eligible to fly land
support missions.

Reserve

1

G. Reserve Designation Phase:
Player ‘‘A’’ designates which of his units he is
placing in reserve status, indicating that with a

‘reserve marker. (See Section 18.0.)

H. Movement And Combat Phase

The following four Segments comprise the Move-
ment and Combat Phase. Player ‘‘A’’ may, if he
so wishes, repeat Segments 1 through 4 as many
times as he desires within the restrictions of the
continual movement rules (8.2). Each repetition
must include all four segment.

1. Movement Segment: All units, except trucks
and tank recovery squadrons not in reserve and
eligible to be moved may be moved. Non-Phasing
Player (‘‘A’’) may move units in accordance with
the reaction movement rules (Case 8.6).

2. Breakdown Determination Segment: All
vehicles and motorized units of both sides are
checked for breakdown. Broken down vehicles are
indicated with the appropriate marker.

3. Combat Segment:

a. Position Determintion Step: Both Players
determine the ‘‘position’’ (front or back) of all
gun and armor class units.

b. Barrage Step: Both Players secretly plot and
then execute any barrages.

c. Retreat Before Assault Step: Player “B” may
retreat before assault any of his units eligible to be
so moved.

d. Force Assignment Step: Both Players secretly
assign TOE Strength Points to anti-armor or close
assault. Player “‘A”’ determines which assaults will
be probes (although he need not reveal this deci-
sion) and which TOE Strength Points will be
withheld from assault.

e. Anti-Armor Step: Both Players simultaneously
resolve any anti-armor fire, extracting any
casualties. Destroyed tank markers are deployed
as required. °

f. Close Assault Step: Close assaults are resolved
in any order determined by Player ‘‘A’’. He an-
nounces which of them are actually probes, after
each is resolved.

4. Reserve Release. Segment: Player ‘‘A’’ may
release any of his reserves that he wishes to.

J. Truck Convoy Movement Phase: Player ‘‘A’’
may move his Second and Third Line (unattached)
Trucks, and any POW’s and Guards.

K. Commonwealth Movement Phase: If Player
“A” is the Commonwealth Player, he may utilize
rail movement (Case 8.9) to move landunits or
supplies. Otherwise this Phase is omitted.

L. Repair Phase:

1. Towing Segment: Player ‘‘A’’ may tow broken-
down and recovered vehicles.

2. Maintenance Segment; Player ‘‘A’’ may at-

20

tempt to repair brokendown or destroyed vehicles
which were not towed in this Phase.

M. Patrol Phase: If there has been no combat in
the current Operations Stage, the Phasing Player
may use patrols for reconnaissance purpose.

VI. Second Operations Stage:

Both Players repeat all facets of the First Opera-
tions Stage.

VII. Third Operations Stage: Both players repeat
all facets of the First Operations Stage.

VIII. Strategic Air Recovery Stage (Air Game
Only)

A. Return to Base Phase: All surviving planes
from missions flown in Stage II are returned to
their base of origin if possible.

B. Aircraft Mainterance Phase: Both Players at-
tempt to ready planes that have flown missions
during the Strategic Air Stage.

IX. End of Game-Turn

You have now completed one full game-turn,
replete with airplanes fuel sandstorms and the lot!
Congratulations. You may put in for a transfer,
but before doing so, keep in mind that the Russian
Front is the only other active theatre.

[49.0] FUEL
GENERAL RULE:

Almost every vehicle in the game consumes fuel
when moving. Players wiil consider a vehicle to
consume fuel unless it specifically states
somewhere in the rules that it does not. Fuel is con-
sumed at a consumption rate dependent on the
vehicle and on the distance travelled. Fuel may
also be consumed in certain types of construction.
Players should consult the Section on Construc-
tion for the rates.

Players must keep track of the amount of fuel
they have available. This may be done on the Sup-
ply Dump Sheets as well as the unit TOE Sheets.
Fuel being transported by truck convoys will be
noted on the Truck Convoy Sheet. As fuel is con-
sumed (by usage or evaporation and spillage) or
increased (by arriving convoys) the Player should
record the changes in levels immediately.

[49.1] FUEL CONSUMPTION RATES
[49.11] All Fuel is considered in terms of Fuel
Points. The Fuel Point is the basic unit of con-
sumption. A Fuel Point is roughly equivalent to
250 pounds or 35 gallons of gasoline and auxiliary
petroleum products: (This rate does not apply to
the Air Game, where fuel usage has been
abstracted because of the decrease in the true
number of sorties flown.)

[49.12] Every vehicle in the game consumes fuel
when it moves, except where specifically noted.
(e.g. desert raiders and patrols among others, have
slightly different rules.) Fuel users include HQ’s
with non-parenthesized TOE Strength Points and
all gun class units. They do not include motor-
cycles or the towing of tanks and trucks back to
repair facilities.

[49.13] Every TOE Strength Point of vehicles has
a fuel consumption rate and a fuel capability
rating. The fuel consumption factor is the number
of Fuel Points consumed for every five Capability
Points (or fraction thereof) expended by the TOE
Strength Point for movement (or any type). Note:
Fuel is not consumed when CP’s are expended for
combat or any other action that does not involve
actual movement from one hex to another. Exam-
ple: One TOE Strength Point of tanks with a fuel
consumption rate of ‘‘4’’ that moved in such a way
that expends 12 Capability Points would consume
12 Fuel Points—‘‘4’’, the fuel consumption rate
multiplied by ‘’3’’, the number of groups of 5 CP’s
expended.

[49.14] The fuel capacity rating is the number of

Fuel Points a TOE Strength Point may have, so to
speak, in its gas tanks. All vehicles’ fuel capacity
ratings are determined according to the following
formula:

Fuel capacity rating = CPA x 1/5 x
fuel consumption rate

Players will note that a TOE Strength Point always
has a fuel capacity rating exactly sufficient to
allow allits CPA to be expended on movement.

[49.15] For fuel to be consumed, it must be pre-
sent in the same hex with the consuming unit/TOE
Strength Point. Generally, movement of a unit will
be ‘‘counted against’? its fuel capacity
rating—i.e., the fuel in the unit’s gas tanks, which
by definition is in the same hex at all times—and
players will have to record how far each land unit
has been moved since the last time its fuel supply
was replenished. See also Case 49.16.

[49.16] In essence, a unit consumes fuel in the hex
in which it begins Movement for any Movement
Segment in the OpStage. It may draw fuel from
any source in that hex, except for second-third line
trucks. (Such fuel from convoying trucks must be
off-loaded first). There is no cost in CP’s to ‘‘gas
up’’. The Player simply notes how far he is going
to go in that Movement Segment and then sub-
tracts the necessary fuel points from whatever
source is available in the hex. He then moves the
unit. If such unit were to move again in that
OpStage, it would have to draw fuel from the new
hex or from its own Fuel Capacity (49.14).

[49.17] In an emergency, Players may ‘‘siphon
gas.’’ That is, if two units are in a hex, one has fuel
and the other doesn’t, and there is no other fuel
supply available, the Player may transfer
some—or all—of the fuel from one unit to the
other, up to the maximum Fuel Capacity of the
receiving unit. Such transfer costs 3 CP’s to both
units. Siphoning may occur in any Movement seg-
ment. The definition of ‘‘emergency’’ is left to the
Players. (Note that fuel may be siphoned from
abandoned or Brokendown enemy vehicles; it may
not be siphoned from a destroyed vehicle. The
enemy player should supply the siphoning player
with the number of fuel points so available—when
requested.)

[49.18] Trucks carrying fuel will also consume
fuel themselves while they are moving. They may
consider the fuel they are transporting as a source
of fuel. It is possible for a truck to consume half of
its cargo getting from a port to a forward area.

[49.19] Fuel is non-denominational. It can be us-
ed by either player, making a supply dump a
worthwhile objective.

[49.2] TRANSPORTATION OF FUEL

Fuel may be transported from one place to another
by trucks, trains and, in some cases, planes. Fuel
may never be ‘‘transported’’ by tanks or other
such vehicles. Walking infantry may never
transport fuel. (How would you like to cross the
desert carrying a 20 pound jerry-can filled with
gasoline?) See the Truck Characteristics Chart for
the amount of Fuel Points that can be carried ona
truck and Aircraft Characteristics Chart for the
transport tonnage capacity of planes.

[49.3] EVAPORATION AND SPILLAGE

Fuel is subject to loss through evaporation and
spillage, regardless of where it is kept. During the
Stores Expenditure Stage of each game-turn,-each
Player reduces a// fuel levels on the game-map (not
in convoys at sea) by six percent (6%), rounded
down. In addition, if the weather for an opera-
tions stage is ‘“‘hot weather’’, an additional reduc-
tion of five per-cent (5%) is taken as soon as the
hot weather is determined. There is one exception

to these rates: from Sept., 1940 until the last
Game-Turn (inclusive) in August, 1941, the Com-
monwealth spillage and evaporation rate is mime
percent (9%) per Game-turn. This is due to the
poorly constructed containers used by the British;
it wasn’t until the British copied that German
‘erry can’’ that their rate was reduced (This rule
also applies to certain sources of water, see 52.44.)

[50.0] AMMUNITION

GENERAL RULE:

Land units that use their TOE Strength Points in
combat expend ammunition, as do planes that
carry bombs and/or engage in air-to-air combat.
Ammunition is consumed in terms of Ammunition
Points at rates of consumption dependent on the
weapon-type firing. A unit without ammunition is
useless in terms of combat. Players must keep
track of the ammo supply of each TOE Strength
Point. Each TOE Strerigth Point may carry (i.e.,
transport by itself without trucks) only enough
ammo to fire once. However, units may always use
ammo present in the hex (either in attached trucks
orinasupply dump).

CASES:

[50.1] CONSUMPTION OF
AMMUNTION

{50.11] All ammunition is considered in terms of
Ammunition Points. Each Ammunition Point is
(very) roughly the equivalent of four tons. Am-
munition consumption rates are given in 50.2

[50.12] Whenever a land unit uses its barrage
strength, its anti-armour strength, its AA points,
or any of its assault strengths it consumes am-
munition. A unit without ammunition of any type
is useless in combat; it may not even defend
against assault if it finds itself in an Enemy Zone,
of Control and/or it is fired upon by an Enemy
unit, it surrenders and is captured. (Units without
ammunition have NO ZOC.) A unit without am-
munition may not enter an Enemy ZOC unless
stacked with (or entering a hex occupied by) a
Friendly unit with ammunition or a supply dump.

[$0.13] Each combat function has an ammunition
consumption rate, listed in 50.2. Units, such as
tanks, that have several types of strengths (anti-
armour as well as assault) use the ammunition con-
sumption rate of on the combat function chosen.

[50.14] The ammunition consumption rate is the
number of Ammunition Points expended for each’
TOE Strength Point being used in combat. Am-
munition is expended by guns barraging (or firing
flak), anti-armour fire, or offensive and defensive
assault: Thus, four TOE Strength Points of Ger-
man 150mm guns would expend 16 Ammunition
Points (4 TOE times the artillery consumption rate
of 4 = 16), regardless of how many Actual Bar-
rage Points are being applied. Thus, a Player may
choose to conserve ammunition by only firing,
say, 3 out of 6 available TOE Strength Points.

[50.15] Ammunition is consumed only if present
in the hex. However, ammunition on truck con-
voys (2nd or 3rd line trucks) may not be used until
it is off-loaded. Ammunition is expended the ins-
tant it is used, and the ammunition level for that
hex/unit/dump must be reduced accordingly.

[50.16] Ammunition is specialized for both
players. Only one-third of all captured Ammo
Points (rounded up) may be used by the opposing
Player. The rest are lost. If a supply dump is re-
captured, only one-third of all remaining Ammo
Points may be used by the re-capturing Player.

[50.17] Ammunition may be transported by
trucks or aircraft; it may be airdropped. It is
available for use when in first line trucks or supply
dumps. Ammunition with truck convoys may not

be used until off-loaded. Combat units may carry
enough ammo to fire once.

[50.2] AMMUNITION CONSUMPTION
RATES CHART
(see Charts and Tables)

[51.0] STORES
GENERAL RULE:

The term ‘‘stores’? encompasses everything that
isn’t fuel, ammunition or water. This includes
food (which is what most playtesters ended up call-
ing stores), paper, uniforms, and whatever else
was used and needed to keep going. Stores are dif-
ferent from other types of supply in that they are
distributed at the beginning of the Game-Turn,
rather than during each Operation Stage, and that
units may get along without them, albeit with
limited effectiveness and with the possibility of at-
trition.

CASES:
[51.1] USAGE OF STORES

{§1.11] Every TOE Strength Point in play requires
four Stores Points per Game-Turn, except as
noted below.

POW
10

[51.12] Prisoners use stores, at a rate of one
Stores Point per five Prisoner Points per Opera-
tions Stage. (See 28.15). Prisoners must be sup-
plied with Stores before any other units. For this
purpose only, if there are no Stores in the hex,
Stores may be deducted from the nearest supply
dump, regardless of how far away itis.

{51.13] HQ and engineer units require only one
Stores Point per Game-Turn.

[51.14] Stores may have to be expended during
construction. See 24.0.

[$1.15] Each Stores Point weighs one ton. Stores
may be transported by trucks or planes, and they
may be airdropped. Stores must be present in the
hex to be used. Stores on truck convoys cannot be
used until off-loaded.

[51.16] Fifty per cent of any captured Stores
Points may be used by the opposing Player; the
rest are lost. ;

[51.17] Guard points require two Stores points
per Game-Turn each. Guards may also draw from
the nearest dump as per 51.12.

[$1.2] EFFECTS OF LACK OF STORES

(51.21] If any TOE Strength Point of a unit
(including parent formation-size) does not receive
required stores, that unit earns one Disorganiza-
tion Point, per Game-Turn of lack of stores.

[51.22] For every two consecutive Game-Turns
units in a hex are without stores, they lose 2% of
their TOE Strength Points, rounded to the nearest
whole number. This loss is progressive and
cumulative (as long as it is consecutive). Thus, at
the end of the fourth consecutive Game-Turn,the
rate rises to 4%, and at the end of six turns, 6%
and so on. TOE Strength Points may be eliminated
only if they are infantry-type TOE Strength
Points. Guns and tanks are not affected by this.

[51.23] A Player in desperate straits may place
units on half rations. He cuts his stores re-
quirements from four to two for units, with the

following effects:
1. No half-ration unit may voluntarily exceed
its CPA;

2. Ahalf-ration unit may not voluntarily enter
an Enemy Zone of Control.

Players may not use this case to ‘‘save’’ Stores.

This is used only if there are not enough to go
around,

[52.0] WATER

GENERAL RULE:

A somewhat ironic fact of the Desert Campaign
was that, although water is the single most impor-
tant item in the desert, it was never really a decisive
factor, operationally. Players should find that
they rarely run out of water, but that it is a
nuisance as it is absolutely necessary. Water comes
from wells (called ‘‘birs’’ in North Africa; hence,
the expression ‘‘Hey, Cold Bir Heah’’ was first
heard at an inter-divisional Soccer Match.) Most
wells are located close to the coast, and thus most
of the water supply is away from the inland areas.
Wells may be ‘‘poisoned’’ or depleted through
usage. Depleted wells are replenished by rains, and
poisoned wells may be ‘’sweetened.’’ Players may
construct water pipelines from major sources to
facilitate water usage and availability.

CASES:

[52.1] WELLS

[52.11] Water is found in wells—and only wells.
(It may be extended from wells through the use of
water pipelines.) Wells are located in major cities,
villages, and birs. Water is also found in oases (See
52.3). Each of the above automatically contains a
well; no other locations or hexes have wells. (The
Tripoli/Tunisia boxes each have unlimited wells.)

[52.12] The amount of water available from a
given source is given in the Water Availability
Table, (52.7). The Table also gives the depletion
possibilities for each source.

[52.13] To obtain water, a unit moves into a hex
with a well. The Player then expends one CP and
throws a die to draw water (the die roll is un-
necessary in Major Cities and oases.). He consults
the Water Availability Table under the correct col-
umn (village or bir) and cross-references the dieroll
with the source. The result is the number of Water
Points drawn, as well as whether the source is
depleted or not. Players should note that wells in
major cities and oases have unlimited water; they
may not be depleted and they may not be poison-
ed.

[52.14] When a well becomes depleted, the Player
who drew the water notes this on a piece of paper.
He does not have to tell the opposing Player that
the well is depleted. However, if an opposing
Player’s units enter a hex with a depleted well, and
attempts to draw water the Player then tells him
that it is depleted (after he has expended the one
CP!). When a depleted well is revealed, a depleted
marker is placed in that hex.

[52.15] Depleted wells remain depleted until a
rainstorm occurs. All depleted wells on a game-
map section with a rainstorm are automatically
replenished at the instant the rainstorm occurs.

[52.16] Wells in villages and birs (not in major
cities or oases) may be ‘“‘poisoned’’. Actually,
poisoning is a fanciful term. No one actually drop-
ped fifty pounds of arsenic down a well; the folks
in Geneva looked askance at that sort of thing.
Rather, the wells could be salted, as there was
plenty of salt around. To poison a well, therefore,
any unit in a hex (village/bir) with a well may ex-
pend one CP and roll one die. If the dieroll is a ‘1’,
the well is poisoned. If the dieroll is 2-6 the attempt
fails (for any number of reasons) and no further
attempt on that well may be made that Operations
Stage. Poisoned wells may be kept secret as in
52.14.

[52.17] Poisoned wells may be sweetened (un-
poisoned) by having any land unit expend 5 CP’s

and roll a die. If the result is a 1, 2, or 3 the well is
OK. Any number of attempts—at 5 CP’s a
shot—may be undertaken, except that a unit may
not exceed its CPA trying to sweeten wells.

[32.2] WATER PIPELINES

[52.21] Players may try to extend their access to
fresh water by constructing water pipelines.
Pipelines extend from a specific source of
water—only wells in major cities.

[52.22] Water pipelines may extend from any well
in a major city any length the Player desires.
The Commonwealth Player may consider any
operating Railroad hex to be a pipeline for water,
and he may construct pipelines from any railroad
hex. The Axis Player may pot use the defunct
Barce-Benghzai railroad for this purpose.

[52.23] Any water pipeline (or RR hex) is con-
sidered as a source of water similar to a major city.
It may not be poisoned or depleted, and it is
unlimited. It may be destroyed.

[52.24] Pipelines are built by engineer battalions
or CW HQ units in the engineering capability. It
takes one Construction Phase, plus the expen-
diture of 10 stores, to build a hex of pipeline. Only
one pipeline hex may be built in any given Opera-
tions Stage.

[52.25] Water Pipelines are susceptible to enemy
attacks. Pipelines—except for railroads acting as
pipelines—may be destroyed by desert raiders, the
presence of an Enemy unit in the hex, or strafing.
Railroad pipelines are destroyed if the railroad is
destroyed. If a pipeline is destroyed, water may be
drawn only from the farthest connected hex.
Pipelines are repaired in the same fashion and cost
as they are built. Pipeline and destroyed pipeline
counters are provided,

[52.3] OASES

Oases are treated the same as the terrain of the hex
they are in, with one major exception: oases are
“‘natural’’ supply dumps for water and stores (in
terms of food). Oases wells are never depleted and
have an endless supply; they may not be poisoned.
Furthermore, oases provide as many stores as
needed to supply units with non-construction
stores (or stores to maintain normal levels; 51.1)
Units sitting in Oases have all the stores and water
they need to last them the entire game. Pipelines
cannot be built from Oases.

[52.4] WATER USAGE RATES

[52.41] Each infantry battalion or company
regardless of its TOE Strength, requires one Water
Point per Operations Stage. See also 52.6.

[52.42] Each TOE Strength Point of Vehicle
(Tank, Recce, Artillery, etc.) or Truck Point re-
quires one Water Point each Operations Stage, if it
uses any of its CPA.

[52.43] Hot weather (29.3) requires additional
water usage.

[52.44] Water—except for water in wells and
pipelines—is subject to evaporation and spillage
(See 49.3).

[52.45] Water may be transported by trucks at the
rates given in the Truck Capacity Tables (40.2).

[52.5] EFFECTS OF LACK OF WATER

[52.51] Vehicles without water may not move or
close assault offensively. Vehicles without water
defending against close assault halve their total
raw strength before determining actual strength.

[52.52] Infantry units (all units moving without
benefit of vehicles) may not voluntarily exceed
their CPA for the Operations Stage they are
deprived of water. Furthermore, they may not
engage in offensive close assault; they defend at
half strength.

21

22

[52.53] For every consecutive operations Stage
after the first Operations Stage without water,
each infantry unit loses one TOE Point.

[52.6] THE ITALIAN PASTA RULE

One of the biggest mistakes the Italians made dur-
ing the entire Desert Campaign was to provide
their troops with a diet which was composed, in
large part, of spaghetti and macaroni. Aside from
providing insufficient protein (this wasn’t Buitoni
Brand), pasta has one serious drawback in-the
desert: you need water to cook it! Therefore, each
Italian battalion, when it receives its Stores, must
receive an additional 1 Point of Water when Stores
are distributed. Any battalion-sized unit that does
not receive their Pasta Point (one. Water point)
may not voluntarily exceed their CPA that Turn.
Furthermore, Italian battalions not receiving their
Pasta Point that have a Cohesion Level of -10 or
worse immediately become Disorganized, as if
they had reached -26. As soon as such units get
their Pasta Point, they regain the original Cohe-
sion Level (i.e., the level they had before they
disintegrated).

[52.7] WATER AVAILABILITY TABLE
(see Charts and Tables)

[52.8] POISONING AND SWEETENING
WELLS TABLE
(see Charts and Tables)

[53.0] TRUCKS AND
TRANSPORT

COMMENTARY:

Transport is the lifeline of the Player. The Player
who fails to grasp the overriding importance of
transport (or, as it is called throughout the rules,
trucks) to his military effort will be a losing Player.
Trucks are the game; without a well-organized and
efficient truck convoy system your entire military
effort will fall apart.

GENERAL RULE:

Trucks are used for one of two purposes: carrying
supplies or transporting men (motorizing infantry-
type units). Each one ‘‘point’’? of trucks is
equivalent to ten actual trucks. Heavy Trucks are
those of the (approximately) three ton or heavier
variety, including heavy-duty lorries and partially-
tracked vehicles. Medium trucks are the equivalent
of all transport vehicles of around 30 cw. Light
trucks are all transport lighter than the 30 cw limit.
Trucks consume fuel and water when they move,
and they suffer breakdown.

CASES:

[53.1] FIRST, SECOND, AND THIRD-
LINE TRUCKS

There are three truck formations: First, Second,
and Third Line Trucks. These formations (or
rather definitions) delineate what the Trucks in
that formation are doing and where they belong.
These definitions are provided not so much in the
form of rigid rules but rather as a system—based
on one actually used in the campaign—so that the
player may better visualize what he can accomplish
and what he has to doit with.

(53.11) First Line Trucks

These are trucks attached directly to the parent
combat unit (division, brigade, battalion, etc.).
They are used to carry men and/or supplies of that
parent combat unit. First line trucks are not
represented by counters; the Player notes on his
TOE Sheet for a parent combat unit the number
and type of truck attached as first line and assigns
men or supplies to each truck unit. First line trucks
may be detached (in the Organization Phase), in
which case they will be represented by a counter
and are no longer considered to be first line trucks.

10

[53.12] Second Line Trucks
These truck units essentially operate between com-
bat units and the forward supply dumps from
which they are retrieving supplies. These trucks are
not limited to carrying supplies; they may, like all
trucks, carry anything not specifically forbidden.
Second line trucks are represented by counters.
Players keep track of all second line trucks on their
truck and Major End Items sheets. They move
during the Truck Convoy Movement Segment of
the Operations Stage, as they are not attached toa
regular unit.

(53.13) Third Line Trucks

These trucks operate between the major ports of
entry (e.g., Alexandria, Tripoli, Cairo, Tobruk,
etc.) where supplies and reinforcements originate,
and the forward supply dumps. Third line trucks
rarely transport directly to combat units, although
there is no rule restricting such transport. Third
line trucks are similar in all ways to second line
trucks, with the sole exception of the name,
which distinguishes them in any supply network
you may devise.

[53.14] Three Tier Organization: The most effi-
cient system for hauling supplies and rein-
forcements is a three-tiered effort: third line trucks
pick up supplies from the port of entry and
transport them to forward dump areas; second line
trucks pick up supplies at those forward dump
areas and drive them directly to the combat units,
where the supplies are then loaded on to that unit’s
first line trucks. They are now available for instant
use by the unit. This system is recommended by the
designers and the playtesters; it is not, however, a
rule.

[53.2] RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF
TRUCKS

[53.21] Trucks acting as convoys may move only
in the Truck Convoy Movement Segment (See
8.18). This applies only to trucks not attached toa
combat unit or HQ. Thus, truck counters on the
game maps are, by definition, convoys and will
move only in the Truck Convoy Movement Seg-
ment.

[53.22] Trucks moving in a Convoy Movement
Segment have an extended CPA: heavy and
medium trucks havea CPA of thirty (30), and light
trucks have a CPA of forty (40). However, Trucks
moving in a Truck Convoy Movement Segment
may never, under any circumstances, exceed their
extended CPA. If, for some reason, they are forc-
ed to exceed their extended .CPA they are con-
sidered to have suffered breakdown (21.0) at the
instant they exceed their extended CPA. First line
trucks use their basic CPA (20 or 25) and may ex-
ceed their CPA as their parent unit does (See 6.1).

[53.23] Any combat unit with a cohesion level of
minus five (-5) or worse may not voluntarily
detach its first line trucks. Conversely, second and
third line trucks attached as first line trucks
assume the cohesion level of the parent unit.

[53.24] There is a Capability Point cost to load
and/or off-load supplies and men. (See 6.3). Sup-
plies for one truck unit must have been off-loaded
by that truck before another truck unit may load
and carry them. This applies even if both truck
units are attached to the same parent combat unit
or convoy. Furthermore, supplies and/or men car-
ried by second and third line trucks that have
reached their full extended CPA’s may not be off-
loaded (and picked up by another truck) if such ac-
tion will cause that truck unit to exceed its extend-
ed CPA. Exceptions: During the Supply Distribu-
tion Segment, trucks may freely be loaded and

unloaded; during the Combat and Movement Seg-
ment, ammunition and fuel loaded in trucks that
hex may be expanded with no unloading cost.

{53.25} ‘‘Leapfrogging’’ is not permitted. Leap-
frogging is defined as having truck ‘‘A’’ carrying
supplies to a hex, then having truck ‘‘B’’ pick up
the same supplies in the same Movement Segment
and move them on to another truck, which then
picks them up, and so on. If this were allowed, a
given cache of supplies could be moved from one
end of the game-map to the other in one Segment!
Thus, for this purpose, supplies and men being
transported by trucks are considered to have and
to have used the same number of CP’s that the
trucks carrying them expended, and they may
never exceed the CPA of the first truck they
started with in the Operations Stage.

[53.3] ABANDONED VEHICLES

[53.31] Trucks, or any prohibited vehicles, that
are in a salt marsh hex and not on a road or track
are automatically abandoned (see 8.44). If the
abandoned vehicle was carrying infantry-type
units or is an artillery unit and there is an Enemy
combat unit within three traversable hexes
(counted from Enemy unit to salt marsh hex) and
there are no Friendly combat units (at the end of
the Movement Stage) within those same three hex-
es, those infantry units surrender and the guns are
captured. If there is no Enemy around, the infan-
try is now on foot and walking (starting next
Movement Stage) and the guns are abandoned.

[53.32] Abandoned vehicles and guns may be
recovered by any unit in an adjacent non-salt
marsh hex with engineering capability (23.1). The
cost to recover such vehicles (or guns) is 10 CP’s to
both units. (Note: The abandoned vehicle is con-
sidered to have its full CPA.) Recovery may not be
performed if either the recovering unit or the
abandoned unit is adjacent to an Enemy combat
unit. Recovered vehicles become attached to the
recovering unit.

[54.0] SUPPLY
CO-ORDINATION

COMMENTARY:

Many of the rules in this Section are covered
elsewhere, but they are spread throughout the
rules booklet. This Section is provided to con-
solidate an important facet of the game: co-
ordinating your supply effort and logistics system.
This involves the rules needed for setting up a sup-
ply network of dumps and trucks and maintaining
the network so that whatever supplies you do have
flow smoothly.

CASES:

[54.1] SUPPLY DUMPS

[54.11] Supply dumps are used to hold large
amounts of supplies — ammunition, fuel, stores,
and water — in places that can be easily reached
and used by combat units. Any hex can be used as
a supply dump, and all major cities are natural
supply dumps.

[54.12]. Dummy supply dumps hold no supplies.
They are revealed only when an Enemy unit enters
the hex or bombs/strafes it. The Dummy supply
counter is removed upon revelation.

[54.13] Supply Dump Capacity Chart
(see Charts and Tables)

[54.14] Players may attempt to ‘‘blow’’ supply
dumps and their supplies. Only non-gun units may
attempt to blow dumps. Only one Phasing unit per

[continued on page 23]

