organization structure. (See Section on Unit
Organization, 19.0). The method of filling out the
boxes in this section is identical to that of Maneu-
ver and Division Assets below. Any unit going i
this section is attached to the counter the Log
Sheet represents, although it may be assigned to
some other unit.

G. Notes: Anything appropriate, ranging from
which units are out of ammo or supplies to the
amount of Water required by the elements com-
prising the counter every Operations Stage.

C, Divisional Assets/Support Units: Applies to
those units attached directly to the division and
not under a Brigade-Eq HQ (unless ina Common-

wealth Armored Division). The boxes are filled in.

the same manner as Maneuver section.

B. Maneuver Elements: These boxes -are the
heart of the Log Sheet. They are where the infor-
mation for the main combat forces comprising the
counter is recorded. Basically, each box is used to
record a single counter (i.e., attached unit). The
information to be recorded consists of the unit’s
type, CPA, Fuel and Breakdown Rates (if any),
current TOE Strength, name, and its ratings for
barrage, anti-armor, vulnerability, armor-
protection, offensive close assault, defensive close
assault and anti-aircraft. Information concerning
whether the unit is simply attached to the unit
without being assigned, and/or is assigned to
another parent unit or is a garrison unit, etc., is
best recorded in the notes section. A tank or gun
unit that is comprised of more than one weapons
system (i.¢e., type of TOE Strength Point) will re-
quire more than one box to represent the unit (as
many boxes as there are weapons systems). A unit
assigned but not at present attached to the unit
whose Log Sheet you are handling still occupies
space within the formation’s organization. This
space may not be filled by attaching other units in
its place. For ease of play, fill in ‘“‘detached”’ in the
box of sucha unit.

The recorded information may be written in or ad-
jacent to the unit’s box in any manner the Player
desires as long as he and the other Player’s have no
problems in reading it.

Brigade TOE Log Sheet: This is used for counters
representing Brigade-Eq and smaller units. The
formation’s organization limits can be found by
using the Formation Organization Chart and the
Formation Attachment Chart. It is useful to put
these limits in the Notes Section. As this is a multi-
purpose form, the boxes in the Maneuver
Elements and Augmentation sections are un-
adorned and can be divided in any manner
necessary.

Infantry Division TOE Log Sheet: The boxes in
the Maneuver Elements section are organized in a
very restricted fashion. Some of the boxes in the
Divisional Assets and all of the boxes in the
Augmentation sections are unadorned to permit
recording of multiple weapons systems occurring
in the same unit. The division’s organiza-
tion and augmentation limits can be determined
from the charts indicated above.

Allied and Italian Armored and German Division
TOE Log Sheets This is free form with the boxes
unstructured so as to permit the expected varia-
tions in both multiple weapons systems in a single
unit and variations in division organization.

[4.53] Rear Area Commander’s Group

This group belongs to the Player in charge of con-
struction, demolition, mopping up operations,
and other rear area jobs having nothing to do with
supplies. (The Player will usually have a Trucks
and Major End Items Control Sheet as he wil! nor-
mally be assigned some trucks in order to handle
routine operations without bothering the Logistics
Commander).

Vehicle Repair Control Sheet: Permits the Player
to handle all broken down vehicle, destroyed tanks
and abandoned vehicle counters.

Naval Convoy Log Sheet: While designed primari-
ly for Axis strategic Naval convoys it is also used
for either Player’s tactical shipping. The sheet per-

‘mits keeping track of naval transport, its location,

destination, transit, what is being transported, etc.

POW Control Sheet: Designed to handle all
POW’s, their Capability Points expended, loca-
tion and inhabitation of the POW Camps, and the
TOE Strength and infantry-type of their Guards.

[4.54] Air Marshal’s Group

The Player in charge of all the airplanes uses the
following two forms and usually the Supply Dump
Control Sheet to simplify required aircraft supply
expenditures the aircraft require.

Squadron Ground Support Unit Sheet: The sheet
contains space for controlling six squadrons of
planes, the maximum number that can be berthed
at an airfield. Each squadron section permits
counter location, basic composition, aircraft
characteristics recording, and the state and Mis-
sion of each plane in the squadron.

Air Mission Log Sheet: Permits the Player to co-
ordinate all air missions assigned in that Opera-
tions Stage/Game-Turn, by hex and by squadron
supplying the planes.

[4.55] Logistics Commander’s Group

The Player in overall charge of supplies.

Trucks and Major End Items Control Sheet: Used
for the Player’s Truck Convoys. Organized to
identify, within each counter, the number of each
type of truck in the convoy, what supplies are be-
ing transported and by what trucks; which trucks
are ‘empty’, any replacement points, repaired
vehicles, returning Guards, etc., being returned or
exchanged between units.

Supply Dumps Control Sheet: Enables the Player
to keep track of the supplies and location of each
of his supply dumps. It is strongly suggested that
the Logistics Commander determine which of his
dumps will be actively or constantly used and
those which are not and separate them into dif-
ferent sheets, as the actual supply dump counter
ID number has no effect.

General Supply Net Sheet: The .Logistics Com-
mander’s chief headaches are how much supply
does he have, how much is coming in, and how
much of that supply is likely to be used in the near
future. This sheet is set up to help prevent him
from running out of a supply by accident, as it
were, either locally or strategically.

Supply Requisition Form; The Logistics Com-
mander is in charge of disbursing these to the
various Field Commanders and Air Marshals.
This may seem humorous at this point, but the
form proved quite helpful in maintaining good
supply organization, and it sure beats yelling at the
top of your voice for 100 gallons of fuel.

[4.6] INVENTORY OF GAME PARTS

One Game-Map (five sections)

Nine sheets of 200 die-cut counters (1800 total)
One Land Game Rules Booklet

One Air & Logistics Game Rules Booklet

Two Charts & Tables Booklets

One 5/8” and one 3/8” plastic die

One Game Box assembly

One 22’? x 34’’ log sheet

One Historical Article Booklet

If any parts are missing or damaged, write, fill out
the enclosed Complaint Card and return to SPI for
replacement. Note: The process used to manufac-
ture counters sometimes results in images being
slightly off-center or in colors spilling along the
edges of differently colored counters. Counters
displaying such minor imperfections cannot be
replaced by SPI. Only in cases where the counters
are not legible can SPI supply replacement parts.

In the Land Game, the Players deal with the fine
distinctions of terrain and local and variable
weather encountered by the actual combatants.
The interlocking and detailed movement and com-
bat systems permit the Players to recreate real time
and space ‘‘continuous’’? movement and combat.
The organization and equipment rules create
voluminous options, allowing the Players to
deploy and maneuver company level and larger
forces with equal ease while at the same time dif-
ferentiating between raw, poorly motivated, or
badly armed units and veteran, well motivated,
well equipped forces as well as changes in the same
unit from one state to the other.

[5.0] THE SEQUENCE
OF PLAY (Land Game)

[5.1] THE GAME-TURN

In CNA each Game-Turn covers a period of ap-
proximately one week. However, to better handle
combat operations, each Game-Turn is divided in-
to three Operations Stages. Each Operation Stage
is the equivalent of 2-3 days of activities and,
within each such Stage, each Player performs a se-
quence of events covering all aspects of the game.
Thus the Players complete their operations within
one Operations Stage, proceed to the second, and
then the third, thus finishing one full Game-Turn.
Certain operations are performed only at the
beginning of the actual Game-Turn. Most of the
game operations — movement and land combat —
are performed within the Operations Stage. The
basic unit of time within the game is thus the
Operations Stage.

[5.2] LAND GAME GAME-TURN
SEQUENCE OUTLINE

This Sequence of Play applies when playing the
Land Game without the Air and Logistics Games.

I. INITIATIVE DETERMINATION STAGE

The Players determine who will have the Initiative
for the coming Game-Turn (Section 7.0). The
Player going first within an Operations Stage
(below) is known as Player ‘‘A’’; the other as
Player ‘‘B.”’

II. NAVAL CONVOY STAGE
A. Naval Convoy Schedule Phase

The Axis Player plans what specific cargoes the
ships will carry and their routes. See Section 32.0
or Section 56.0. The Axis Player plans for the ar-
rival of future Replacements from the Axis
Replacement Points Pool. Likewise, the Com-
monwealth Player consults the Commonwealth
Production Table and determines how many
Replacement Points he will receive two turns henc
and plans for their arrival. .

12

B. Tactical Shipping Phase

Both Players plan the transport of cargo between
African ports. Note: The Axis Coastal Ships are
represented in the game by counters. Allied coastal
shipping is not represented by counters and is
limited only by the port capacities.

III. FIRST OPERATIONS STAGE
A. Initiative Declaration Phase

The Player who gained the Initiative in Stage I now
states whether he will be Player ‘‘A’’ or Player
“*B’’ for this particular Operations Stage.

B. Weather Determination Phase
The Player with Initiative rolls for Weather (29.0).
C. Organization Phase

The following segments are undertaken in any

order desired.

1. Reorganization Segment: Attachment and/or

assignment of Reinforcements, Replacements or

any other non-assigned units including Trucks

may be undertaken. Detachment of units may also

be accomplished.

2. Construction Segment:
a. Construction Completion Step: Any work
scheduled for completion is finished, removing
and adding any markers necessary. Units that
have finished construction are free to move.
b. Construction Initiation/Continuation Step:
any units beginning or continuing work on pro-
jects are noted. They may not voluntarily move
in the remainder of the Operations Stage (Ex-
ception: Reaction).

3. Training Segment:
a. Training Completion Step: Units and
Replacement Points completing a level of Train-
ing are noted and the effects in Morale applied.
b. Any units beginning or continuing Training
are noted. They may not move voluntarily in the
remainder of the Operations Stage (Exception:
Reaction). .

D. Naval Convoy Arrival Phase

All Reinforcements, Replacement Points and Am-
mo Points scheduled for Arrival (and actually ar-
riving) appear in their designated Ports of Arrival
or Entrance hexes.

E. Commonwealth Fleet Phase

1. Fleet Assignment Segment: The Com-
monwealth Player assigns his ships to any sea or
coastal hexes.

2. Fleet Repair Segment: Any Repair work on
ships is undertaken at this time.

F. Reserve Designation Phase

Player ‘‘A’’ designates which of his units he is
placing in Reserve Status, indicating such with a
Reserve I marker (see Section 18.0).

G. The Movement and Combat Phase

The following four Segments comprise the Move-
ment and Combat Phase. Player ‘‘A’’ may if heso
wishes, repeat Segments | through 4 as many times
as he desires within the restrictions of the Con-
tinual Movement Rules (8.2). Each repetition must
include all four segments.
1. Movement Segment: All units, except unat-
tached Trucks and Tank Recovery Squadrons, not
in Reserve and capable of being moved may be
moved. Non-Phasing (Player ‘‘B’’) units may
React if permitted and Player ‘‘B’’ wishes to do so.
2. Breakdown Determination Segment: All
vehicles and motorized units of both sides check
for Breakdown (2.10). Broken down vehicles are
indicated by a marker.
3. Combat Segment: (Combat is resolved as
follows see Sections 11.0 through 15.0).

a. Position Determination Step: Both Players

determine the ‘‘position’’? of all Gun-and

Armor-class units.

b. Barrage Step: Both Players secretly plot and
then execute any Barrages.
c. Retreat Before Assault Step: Player ‘‘B”’
may Retreat Before Assault any of his units per-
mitted to doso. ;
d. Force Assignment Step: Both Players secret-
ly assign TOE Strength Points to Anti-Armor or
Close Assault. Player ‘‘A’’ determines which
Assaults will be Probes (although he need not
reveal this decision) and which TOE Strength
Points will be withheld from Assault.
e. Anti-Armor Step: Both Players simul-
taneously resolve any Anti-Armor Fire, remov-
ing all casualties. Placement of Destroyed
Tanks markers are made if necessary.
f. Close Assault Step: Close Assaults are resolv-
ed in any order that Player ‘‘A’’ desires. He an-
nounces which Assaults are actually Probes
after each is resolved.

4. Reserve Release Segment: Player ‘‘A’’ may

release any of his Reserves that he wishes.

H. Truck Convoy Movement Phase

Player ‘‘A’’ may move his Second and Third Line
Trucks (unattached) and any POW’s and Guards.

J. Commonwealth Rail Movement Phase

If Player ‘‘A’’ is the Commonwealth Player he
may utilize Rail Movement (8.7) for units and/or
Supplies.

K. Repair Phase

1. Towing Segment: Player ‘‘A”’ may tow Broken
down and Recovered vehicles.

2. Maintenance Segment: Player ‘‘A’’ may at-
tempt to Repair Broken down or destroyed
vehicles which were not towed in this Phase.

L. Patrol Phase

If the Phasing Player has not engaged in Assault,
he may use Patrols for reconnaissance purposes.

At this point Player ‘‘B’’ undertakes Phases F
through L, replacing any references to ‘‘A”’ with
“Band oopee with ay. | an

IV. SECOND OPERATIONS STAGE

Both Players repeat all facets of the First Opera-
tions Stage.

V. THIRD OPERATIONS STAGE

Both Players repeat ail facets of the First Opera-
tions Stage.

VI. END OF GAME-TURN

You have now completed one Game-Turn, a full
week of the real campaign. Take a breather, havea
beer and a sandwich, contact your loved ones to let
them know you’re still alive, and return for
another Game-Turn.

[6.0] THE CAPABILITY
POINT SYSTEM

GENERAL RULE:

CNA uses a Capability Point system to control all
aspects of a given land unit’s abilities. A unit’s
Capability Point Allowance (CPA) is a numerical
representation of a unit’s ability to undertake any
and all functions: movement (including retreats
and advances), combat, loading, transporting,
construction, etc. There is not a function in the
game that will not cost a unit some of its CPA
(with some minor exceptions). CPA thus regulates
each and every aspect of play. Under certain cir-
cumstances units may exceed their CPA. To do so
will affect a unit’s Cohesion, earning it Dis-
organization Points (which may affect Morale).
Yet, the ability to exceed its CPA allows a unit to
stretch itself to the limit, to perform feats it might

not ordinarily perform — at a price. Players
should thus keep close track of each unit’s CP’s
expended and its Cohesion Level on the Sheets
provided.

CASES:

[6.1] HOW THE CPA SYSTEM WORKS

[6.11] Each unit has a Capability Point Allowance
(CPA). The CPA for each unit is given on the OA
Sheets. Certain Gun units have a CPA of ‘‘0;”
these units are considered to have a CPA of 10 for
all purposes other than movement.

[6.12] Every function that a unit would need to
perform costs that unit some portion of its CPA.
The costs of each such function are listed on the
Capability Point Cost Table, Section 6.3. Except
where noted, everything a unit does costs CP’s.

[6.13] The CPA for a given unit refers to the
number of Capability Poins that unit may use ina
given Operations Stage without earning Dis-
organization Points (See 6.2). Thus, a Tank Bat-
talion with a CPA of ‘25’ could use 25 CP’s in an
Operations Stage without garnering any Dis-
organization Points.

[6.14] The allotment of CP’s for an Operations
Stage refers to both Players’ portions of that
Operations Stage. Thus, if the Axis Player goes
‘ast’? in a given Operations Stage any CP’s used
by his units in Retreating, Reacting, etc., during
the Commonwealth portion of that Operations
Stage are counted against those units’ CPA’s for
that Operations Stage. As the Operations Stage
progresses, Players should keep track of CP’s ex-
pended by units on either the TOE Sheet for that
unit or on the Field Commander Control Sheet.
Example: At the beginning of the first Operations
Stage of the September III, 1940 Game-Turn
(Game-Turn 1), the First Royal Northumberland
Fusiliers (a non-motorized, Machinegun battalion
at this point) has a CPA of eight. To start the
game, the Italians move and attack the Ist RNF.
They have no artillery and do not barrage. The
Allied Player decides to Retreat Before Assault
three hexes at a cost of six CP’s. The Ist RNF did
not use any CP’s to defend, and the Italians did
not expend any CP’s to Close Assault, as the
Allied unit retreated before any could be expend-
ed. Thus when the Commonwealth Player begins
his portion of that Operations Stage the Ist RNF
battalion will have only two CP’s remaining
before it exceeds its CPA and earns Disorganiza-
tion Points.

[6.15] The CPA of a ‘‘Parent Formation”’ (e.g.,
division, brigade, etc.) is that of the /owest CPA of
the units comprising that parent formation,
regardless of the CPA of any higher-CPA units. If
the British 7th Armored Division was to move as
an entity (consult the OA Sheet for the 7th Arm.
Div) it would move with a CPA of ‘10’, or that of
its lowest-CPA unit — the Ist KRRC (without
trucks).

[6.16] A unit does not have to use all of its CP’s in
a single Operations Stage. However, CP’s not used
in one Operations Stage do not carry over into the
next Operations Stage (unlike Cohesion Levels,
which do). They are not transferrable from one unit
to another (although an infantry unit may assume
the CPA ofa truck if it is motorized; see 6.17).

[6.17] Certain units may become ‘‘motorized’’
during the game: i.e., Infantry units (those units
witha basic CPA of 10 or less) may use Truck units
to transport them. Infantry units being thus trans-
ported by Truck units assume the CPA of the
Truck unit carrying them. Thus, if the Ist RNF
were to be motorized by Medium Trucks it would
now have a CPA of ‘20’, instead of ‘8’. (See also
Section 8.9). Anti-air units with listed CPAs of

:
|

0+ may be motorized by assigning one Medium or
one Heavy Truck Point per TOE Strength Point of
Artillery.

[6.2] COHESION

Cohesion represents a unit’s state of exhaustion
and disintegration (Disorganization) or elation
(Reorganization). A unit with a Cohesion Level of
“‘Q’? is its normal self. A unit in Disorganization,
with a minus Cohesion Level, has probably been
exerting itself beyond the normal call of duty,
while a unit with a plus Cohesion Level
(Reorganization) has been winning battles. The
Cohesion Level of a unit affects its Morale Level at
the instant of combat, which in turn will affect its
performance in that battle. (See Section 17.0).

[6.21] Whenever a unit exceeds its CPA within a
given Operations Stage it earns Disorganization
Points (DP’s). For each Capability Point that a
unit uses over its CPA it earns one Disorganization
Point. Thus, a unit witha CPA of ‘15° that uses 18
CP’s in an Operations Stage earns three DP’s. [A
unit may also earn DP’s as a result of combat.] Ifa
unit (Parent Formation as well as all units in that
formation) suffers losses of 30% or greater in any
one Close Assault it earns three DP’s. (See also
15.29b).

[6.22] DP’s are used to decrease the Cohesion
Level of a unit. Thus a unit with a Cohesion Level
of —1 that earns three DP’s now has a Cohesion
Level of — 4. DP’s accumulate from Segment to
Segment; they may be negated only by certain ac-
tions on the part of the unit (See 6.23). Further-
more, DP’s are credited immediately — not at the
end of an Operations Stage. Example: the Ist
RNF, with a CPA of ‘8’ and a Cohesion Level of
— 2 has expended five CP’s in a Movement Seg-
ment. It then assaults an Italian unit, expending
the five CP’s necessary to do so. The Ist RNF has
thus exceeded its CPA by two, earning 2 DP’s and
reducing its Cohesion Level by that two to —4.
The decrease in the Cohesion Level takes place
before the Close Assault is resolved and the Ist
RNF uses its new Cohesion Level of —4 in com-
puting any changes to Morale.

[6.23] A unit’s Cohesion Level may be increased
by earning Reorganization Points (RP’s). Under
no circumstances, however, may a units Cohesion
Level ever go higher than plus ten (+10). RP’s
earned are added to a unit’s Cohesion Level in
such a way as to make it ‘‘better’’. Thus a unit with
a Cohesion Level of — 3 that earns five RP’s has a
new Cohesion Level of +2. RP’s, like DP’s, are
applied immediately.

[6.24] RP’s are earned under the following cir-

: cumstances:

1. For each Operations Stage in which a unit uses
absolutely no CP’s (except for a unit undergoing
Training or conducting Training; see 18.3) that
unit earns five RP’s. However, no unit may ever
increase his Cohesion Level above’ ‘0’ by this
method. Thus, a unit with a Cohesion Level of —1
that uses no CP’s for an entire Stage would have a
Cohesion Level of ‘0’ at the end of that Stage (not
+4).

2. For each Close Assault in which a unit par-
ticipates where the defending upit vacates its hex
completely as a direct result of that Close Assault
(not Reaction or Retreat Before Assault) that unit
(victorious) earns fhree RP’s.

[6.25] A unit with a positive Cohesion Level (e.g.,
+3) may have its Basic Morale increased in a given
Close Assault, while a unit with a negative Cohe-
sion Level (e.g., —12) may have its Morale
lowered for a given combat (see Case 17.2).

[6.26] A unit with a Cohesion Level of ~26 (or
worse) may not move, attack, or defend. If an
enemy combat unit moves adjacent to it it Sur-

renders, regardless of the size of the enemy unit.
Such ‘‘disorganized’’ units may, however, refuel,
and they do consume Stores and Water. (Note,
that a unit may get a level of worse than ~— 26 if it
performs a sing/e action, such as an attack that
would jump it past the — 26 level.)

[6.27] If a Player has more than one unit (or in-
dividual combat counter) in a given Close Assault,
and those individual units have different Cohesion
Levels, then the Cohesion Level of the largest (in
terms of type: division, brigade, etc.) unit prevails.
(Use the Stacking Points to determine the
“Jargest’’ unit.) When determining any adjust-
ments to Morale through Cohesion Level, if there
is more than one ‘“‘largest unit’’, then the Cohesion
Levels of all “largest units’? are added together
and divided by the number of contributing
counters.

Example: Three brigades are assaulting an enemy
unit. The Cohesion Level of the Brigades is — 4,
—1 and +3, respectively. The Player adds the
three together (—4 + (—)1 + 3 = —2, and then
divides by three (—2 + 3 = —1, rounding to the
nearest whole number). The Cohesion Level for
that battle is thus — 1.

[6.28] If a Parent Formation has many units
within it that have different Cohesion Levels the
largest unit within the Parent Formation prevails,
as per Case 6.27.

Example: An extreme example — and one not like-
ly to occur — is one where a Parent Formation has
three Brigades, all with different Cohesion Levels;
in addition, one of the Brigades contains three bat-
talions, each with a different Cohesion Level. The
Cohesion Level for the latter Brigade would have
to be determined before averaging the three
Brigades to get the final Cohesion Level. Again,
this will rarely — if ever — occur.
[6.29] Notwithstanding anything said in 6.27 or
6.28, each unit’s Cohesion Level is kept track of
individually. As most units ina Parent Formation
will have the same level at all times, this will not
prove to be too big a problem.
[6.3] CAPABILITY POINT

COST SUMMARY

(see Charts and Tables)

[7.0] INITIATIVE
GENERAL RULE:

Initiative is an abstract, numerical rating represen-

tative of the strategic leadership capabilities of a

given army. It is used, in the game, to determine
who has the choice to act first within a given
Operations Stage. The fact that a Player has the
ability to choose when he will move is a great ad-
vantage, and the army with better initiative will
often find that it has the upper hand operationally
— if not materially.

[7.1] THE MECHANICS OF INITIATIVE

[7.11] The Player who has ‘“‘Initiative’’ for a
Game-Turn may choose whether he wishes to
move first or last in a given Operations Stage.

[7.12] The Player who will have the Initiative is
determined at the beginning of each Game-Turn
(not Operation Stage). The Player who gains the
Initiative keepts that Initiative for all three Opera-
tions Stages in that Game-Turn. Thus, the Player
with Initiative may choose to move first in the first
Operations Stage, last in the second stage and then
first in the third Stage (which would give him, in
effect, two “‘turns”’ ina row).

{7.13} Each side possesses an Initiative Rating

(7.2), which is dependent on the date of the Game-
Turn.

[7.14] To determine which Player has the In-
itiative for a given Game-Turn, each Player, in the
Initiative Determinate Stage, rolls one die and
adds his Initiative Rating to the result of the
thrown die. The Player with the highest total (ties
roll again) gains the Initiative. Thus, in October of
1940, if the Italian Player, with an Initiative
Rating of ‘1’, were to roll a ‘4’? and the Common-
wealth Player, with an Initiative Rating of ‘3’,
were to rolla ‘1’, the Italian Player would gain the
Initiative by virtue of having a total of five (1 + 4
= 5) to the Commonwealth total of ‘47 (3 + 1 =
4). The Italian Player would now be able to
choose, in his Initiative Declaration Phase,
whether he wants to move first or last in the Opera-
tions Stage for each of three Operations Stages in
the Game-Turn.

(7.15] The Player with Initiative for the first
Game-Turn of a given scenario is usually predeter-
mined, Check the individual scenarios for who has
the Initiative for the first Game-Turn.

[7.16] For purposes of the Sequence of Play, the
Player who moves first in an Operations Stage is
called ‘‘Player A’’; the Player who moves last in
an Operations Stage is called ‘‘Player B’’.

[7.2] INITIATIVE RATINGS CHART

This chart lists the Axis and CW initiative ratings
for all units at any given point in the game. (See
Separate Sheets)

[8.0] LAND MOVEMENT

GENERAL RULE:

In CNA, Land Movementis a function of the CPA
of a unit. Most Movement occurs during the
Movement Segment of the Movement/Combat
Phase. During the Movement Segment, the Phas-
ing Player (i.e., the Player who is in the process of
moving) may move as many or as few of his units
as he wishes. They may be moved in any direction
or combination of directions, limited only by their
CPA’s, enemy Zones of Control, Terrain restric-
tions and, in the case of motorized units, Fuel con-
sumption and Breakdown. Under certain con-
ditions (Reaction and Retreat Before Assault) the
non-Phasing Player may move his units.

PROCEDURE:

Units are moved one at a time, or in stacks, tracing
a path of contiguous hexes through the hex grid.
As a unit enters each hex it must expend a portion
of its CPA for entering that hex or crossing a par-
ticular hexside. All terrain costs are listed on the
Terrain Effects Chart (8.37). In addition to Move-
ment costs, Players must pay attention to Break-
down costs for vehicles moving through certain
hexes (see Section 21.0).

[8.1]. HOW TO MOVE
UNITS

[8.11] Units may be moved voluntarily only dur-
ing the Movement Segments or Retreat Before
Assault Step. Voluntary movement may never
take place out of the Sequence of Play. Players
should note that while Player A may be the Phas-
ing Player, Player B has several opportunities to
move his units during A’s Segment. All move-
ment, of any type, expends CP’s. Furthermore, if
the unit moving is a vehicle (armored units, self-
propelled artillery and trucks), the Player must
check for possible Breakdown (see Section 21.0).
Units may move freely through Friendly units,
with the exception of movement along roads and
tracks (see Case 8.34).

[8.12] Under certain conditions — usually combat
— a unit may be forced to Retreat. This is con-
sidered involuntary movement, in that the retreat-

13

14

ing Player does not move by his own choice but
rather as a direct result of combat. However, in-
voluntary movement also requires expenditure of
CP’s and checks for Breakdown.

[8.13] A unit may never enter a hex containing an
enemy unit (see, however, Case 27.4). Further-
more, movement from hex to hex must be con-

secutive; units may not skip hexes. (There are, of

course, different rules for aircraft.)

[8.14] If a unit moves into an enemy Zone of Con-
trol (10.0) it must stop immediately. It may move
no further in that Movement Segment and will
probably have to attack, in some form, the enemy
unit exerting that Zone of Control.

[8.15] A unit that begins a Movement Segment in
an enemy Zone of Control may move out of that
hex and continue movement under the following
conditions:

1. It may not move directly into an enemy Zone of
Control (however, see Case 10.24); and

2. It must pay a cost of two CP’s if the units are in
““Contact’’ (see Case 8.62); or

3. It must pay a cost of four CP’s if the units are
“Engaged’’ (see Case 8.63).

[8.16] Units may continue to move and fight as
long as they wish, with certain restrictions (see
Case 8.2). They may exceed their CPA in an
Operations Stage; however this will affect their
Cohesion Level.

[8.17] Non-motorized units — those units with
CPA’s of fen or less — may never voluntarily ex-
pend CP’s greater than 50% of their base CPA
during their portion of the Operations Stage (An
‘8’ could not go higher than ‘12’, a ‘10’ no higher
than ‘15’). Remember, Reaction and Retreat
Before Assault are not voluntary movement in
your own portion of an Operations Stage; they oc-
cur in the other player’s portion of the Operations
Stage. Furthermore, no unit with a Cohesion Level
of — 26 or worse may move.

[8.18] Second and Third Line Trucks (i.e., Truck
Convoys; see Section 8.9) have their own Move-
ment Phase: The Truck Convoy Movement Phase.
Such trucks may not move (voluntarily) in the nor-
mal movement segments. Only trucks directly at-
tached to, and part of, a combat unit or HQ may
move in the normal Movement Segments. Trucks
become attached and/or detached in the Organiza-
tion Segment of the Sequence of Play.

[8.19] No Commonwealth Land unit may be mov-
ed west of Marble Arch (A2109) at any time, for
any reason. (This solves a great number of play-
ing problems, and also reflects Commonwealth
operations considerations and strategy.)

{8.2] THE CONCEPT OF
CONTINUAL MOVEMENT

CNA uses a concept called ‘‘Continual
Movement’’. Under this concept a given unit does
not possess a set Movement Allowance which it
may never exceed, as in most wargames. Rather a
unit has a Capability Point Allowance. If a Phas-
ing Player wishes to push his units past their CPA
he may do so, knowing that it will affect that unit’s
Cohesion. In Continual Movement a unit may
continue to move after it has engaged in combat,
moving and fighting as long as the Phasing Player
wishes, within certain limits.

Continual Movement generates certain problems
in terms of Time-and-Space Relationships. The
rules attempt to account for the fact that time
passes while one unit is moving; that other units
are not standing still.

[8.21] Units are not limited as to the number of
times they may move and engage in combat during
a given Operations Stage except for Cases 6.26,

8.17, and 8.23. Thus, a unit may move adjacent to
an Enemy unit, engage it in combat, move away
(or stay), engage the same or another unit in com-
bat, etc., as the Phasing Player wishes. The unit
simply expends CP’s for a//actions it performs.

[8.22] Within a given Movement/Combat Phase
there may be several segments of Movement and
Combat. These are, to a certain extent, regi-
mented. In essence, the Phasing Player moves his
units. He then, after all such movement is com-
pleted, resolves any combat. He may then again
move any of his units (within the exceptions men-
tioned in 8.21); after all movement at that time is
completed any combat necessitated or desired is
resolved. This cycle is repeated until the Phasing
Player no longer wishes to move his units or have
combat. Remember, no combat occurs until a@//
movement has ceased within each Sequence of
Movement and Combat.

[8.23] Only those Phasing units that have finished
a Movement Segment within two hexes of an
enemy unit are free to move again. A Phasing unit
that finishes its movement more than two hexes
from an enemy combat unit may not continue to
move during that Movement Phase, regardless of

- the number of CP’s remaining, unless that is a unit

that has been placed in Reserve Status (18.0).
Players should note that Reserve Status is an ex-
ception to 8.22.

[8.24] A Phasing unit that begins any Move-
ment/Combat Phase in the Zone of Control of an
Enemy unit must expend fwo CP’s to break ‘‘Con-
tact’? — or four CP’s, if such position was brought
about by an ‘‘Engaged”’ result on the Assault CRT
— if it wishes to move. (Note, that in the case of an
Engaged result, the presence of an enemy ZOC
does not matter.)

[8.25] A Friendly unit may attack a given Enemy
unit more than once in a given Operations Stage,
with neither unit ever moving! However, each
combat occurs after all movement of other units
cease. If there is no movement by any units, com-
bat may still proceed for as long as the Phasing
Player wishes, providing he has the necessary Am-
munition and wishes to expend the required
number of CP’s.

[8.3] TERRAIN EFFECTS
ON MOVEMENT

{8.31] Units expend a varying number of CP’s to
enter hexes or cross certain hexsides, depending
upon the type of unit and/or what type of hex or
hexside is involved. The costs range from % CP
for roads (for motorized units) to + 8 for a vehicle
to move down an escarpment via a track or an
infantry-type unit to cross The Nile without a
“‘bridge’’. See the Terrain Effects Chart for all ef-
fects (8.9).

[8.32] Certain types of hexes and/or hexsides are
prohibited to certain types of units. E.g., certain
vehicles may never enter a Salt Marsh hex, unless it
is onaroad or track.

{8.33] Roads and Tracks may be used to facilitate
movement through terrain obstacles and speed
movement over the entire game-map. For a unit to
gain any benefit from movement on a Road or
Track if must move from one Road/Track hex
directly into an adjacent, connecting Road/Track
hex through a Road/Track hexside. Units which
are moving along Roads or Tracks ignore, for
movement purposes, any other terrain in the hex
or hexside, with the exception of vehicles crossing
Escarpments (see 8.42).

[8.34] A unit comprised (at least in part) of
vehicles (i.e., tanks, trucks, artillery, etc.) that is
moving along a Road or Track is limited in its
ability to move through other Friendly units on the
Road or Track in that hex; see Case 9.33. Such

moving units may always pass around Friendly
units that are on a Road or Track by moving
through the terrain in the hex, i.e., bypassing the
units on the road by moving off the road and
around them, going back on the road in the next
hex.

[8.35] Most of the terrain in CNA is self-
explanatory, especially when the Terrain Effects
Chart is consulted. However, at this point it would
help to be able to visualize the difference between
slopes, ridges and escarpments. An idealized side-
view of each of the above types of terrain is provid-
ed below so that players can see what is being
abstracted:

>

Slope Ridge Escarpment
Slopes and Escarpments always have an ‘‘up’’ side
and a ‘‘down’’ side (see the Terrain Key). The
splash contours of the respective terrain symbols
are always on the ‘‘down’’ side of the slope or
escarpment. Thus, when a unit is crossing a slope
or escarpment hexside it is moving either up the
slope/escarpment or down the slope/escarpment.

Ridges have no ‘‘direction’’; crossing a Ridge hex-
side has the same effect regardless of which direc-
tion the unit is coming from. In essence, ridges are
two-sided slopes.

[8.36] Certain types of terrain restrict combat or
give the attacker or defender a combat benefit.
These benefits are discussed throughout the sec-
tions on Combat, but they are all summarized on
the Terrain Effects Chart.

[8.37] Terrain Effects Chart
(see Charts and Tables)

[8.4] SPECIAL TERRAIN EFFECTS
ON MOVEMENT

For those gamers used to Panzerarmee Afrika and
Afrika Korps, the game-map of CNA will come as
something of a shock and a revelation: there is ter-
rain in all those empty spaces. And much of this
terrain is unlike that of anywhere else on earth, br-
inging with it special problems for both designer
and player. The most important of these are
discussed below.

(8.41] Wadis. Wadis are, in essence, dried-out
river beds. There are several major areas of wadis
in North Africa. While the series of wadis that
‘‘guards’? the Libyan Sand Desert, south of
Cyrenaica, is the largest group, perhaps the most
important series of wadis are those extending like

_ fingers from the Jebel Akhdar (game-map B).

Along with the other difficult terrain in the area,
the wadis of the Jebel Akhdar greatly hinder rapid
movement.

Allunits expend CP’s to cross a Wadi hexside. (All
wadis in CNA have been placed along hexsides,
with the exception of the Wadi Natrun, just west
of the Nile Delta, which is treated, for game-
purposes, as if it were Salt Marsh.) In addition,
there is a Breakdown Factor of eight for vehicles
crossing a wadi hexside. Roads negate wadis for
movement purposes, while Tracks halve the cost to
cross. Vehicles crossing a Wadi on a Road use the
Road Breakdown Rate (2 BP), while vehicles
crossing on Tracks garner four BP’s, not eight.

Players should note that in an Operations Stage in
which the Weather is Rainstorm wadis in affected
map sections are impassable at ail points, except
where they are traversed by roads. The cost to
cross a rain-swollen wadi by Road is +2 CP’s;

there is no additional Breakdown cost (i.e., it is
still 4% BP).

[8.42] Escarpments. The escarpments, which
were such an integral part of the Desert Campaign,
are at the edge of the Libyan Plateau, which rises
from the edge of the strip of land that borders the
Mediterranean. In some places the rise is gradual;
in others it is sharp and severe, virtually uncross-
able by vehicles. Movement costs for crossing
escarpment hexsides are listed in the Terrain Ef-
fects Chart (8.37). However, other factors must be
noted. No vehicle may ever move ‘“‘up”’ an escarp-
ment (i.€., cross an escarpment hexside by moving
from the down side to the up side). If a Track
crosses an escarpment hexside, vehicles may use
the Track to move down the escarpment, but never
up. The cost for moving down via Track would be
+8 CP’s and six Breakdown Points.

[8.43] Slopes and Ridges. These were discussed in
8.35. All units may cross these hexsides at a variety
of Movement and Breakdown costs; see 8.37.

[8.44] Salt Marsh. Salt marshes are depressions
consisting of very fine and treacherous salty sand
—a veritable quicksand grave for vehicles, and no
fun for infantry either. Vehicles, except for Light
Trucks, Recce-type units, and motorcycle infantry
may enter or leave a Salt Marsh hex only ona Road
or Track. A prohibited vehicle that enters a Salt
Marsh hex without using the Track, whatever the
reason, is Abandoned (see 5.33). Because most
vehicles are prohibited from entering Salt Marshes
in a normal manner, zo motorized unit or AFV
(tank, armored car, etc.) may ever engage in
Assault with units defending in a Salt Marsh hex.
The one camel unit in the game (the Italian
Meharisti Camel Cavalry) travels as infantry in
non-track Salt Marsh hexes, as these hexes could
not support /oaded camels.

[8.45] Desert. Desert hexes, which comprise the
area known as the Libyan Sand Desert, contain
soft, shifting sand (as opposed to ‘‘Clear’’ hexes,
which have a clay-like substance more supportive
of vehicular traffic.) Desert hexes are forbidden to
Light Trucks, Motorcycle infantry, and motor-
cycle Recce units whose weight was not sufficient
enough to provide the traction necessary for mov-
ing vehicles through the soft surface. Such units
may not enter any Desert hexes, whether traversed
by Tracks or not. See 8.37 for all terrain costs.

[8.46] Tracks. The major communication net-
work of the North African Plateau is the series of
tracks that criss-cross the entire area. The tracks
are useful not in that they are easier to walk or ride
in (in some places they are no easier than the ter-
rain in the hex); what they do provide is direction
~— i.e., which way to go. Sense of direction in the
“‘desert’’ is almost non-existent; the tracks provide
that. Movement along tracks is at 1 CP per hex and
halves most hexside crossing CP costs. In addi-
tion, units using a track pay only one-half the nor-
mal Breakdown cost for that hex.

[8.47] Railroads and Roads. The use of these two
are discussed quite succinctly in the body of the
rules. However, Players should note that, on the
game-map, there are large sections of railroad and
some’ roads that are not constructed as of
September 1940 and must be constructed to exist.
Specific later scenarios will list the hexes that have
been constructed by that time. Unconstructed rail-
road hexes are ignored for all purposes. Uncon-
structed roads are treated as tracks.

[8.48] Oases do not affect movement, But it might
be worthwhile to point out here that Oases are con-
sidered to be nondiminishing Supply Dumps for
Water and Stores.

[8.49] All of these terrain types also affect com-
bat. However, such effects are discussed in the
various combat Sections, especially 15.3.

{8.5] REACTION

Reaction is the capability of a unit to ‘‘get out of
the way’’ of an attacking unit or units before the
enemy can launch an attack against the reacting
unit. Reaction is movement conducted by the non-
Phasing Player — as defender — in the opposing
Player’s Movement/Combat Phase, A unit’s abili-
ty to react is limited to certain specific situations.
Reaction expends CP’s.

[8.51] Reaction is the process of movement by a
Friendly, non-Phasing unit in response to an
Enemy Combat unit moving adjacent to that
Friendly, non-Phasing combat unit. Reaction
follows all the standard rules of movement, except
as stated below.

[8.52] A given unit may React as many times as
the Player wishes during an Operations Stage. A
unit ‘‘reacting’’ expends CP’s; however, it does
not expend CP’s for Breaking Contact/Engaged,
as defined in 8.24.

{8.53] All units may react, with the following ex-
ceptions:

a. Non-motorized units, Squadron Ground Sup-
port Units, and Truck Convoys not stacked with
Friendly combat units may never React.

b. No unit may React if the Enemy unit moving
adjacent to it has a CPA six or more points greater
than that of the non-Phasing unit and the owner of
the Phasing unit announces there will be a Close
Assault by his unit against the non-Phasing unit.
Thus, a motorized infantry battalion may react
when a tank battalion with a CPA of 25 moves ad-
jacent to it, because a motorized unit will have a
minimum CPA of 20 (from its trucks). However,
if the same motorized battalion were to be moved
adjacent to by an enemy Recce battalion, with a
CPA of 45, the motorized battalion could not
React. (It could still Retreat Before Assault,
however; see Section 13.0). Furthermore, each
units is treated individually; thus, Second Line
Light Trucks stacked with (but not attached to)
that motorized battalion could retreat (as they
have an extended CPA of 40, only 5 less than 45).
c. If a non-phasing unit is already in an enemy
Zone of Control (usually as a result of (b) above) it
may not React. In this way, faster units ‘‘pin’’
slower units.

d. A unit that is in combat or Engaged may not
react.

[8.54] Notwithstanding anything said in 8.53, no
battalion size unit may ever pin a division and no
company-size unit may ever pin a brigade or larger
unit. The terms used here refer to size, and not
specifically the unit type/designation. Size of unit
may be determined by Stacking Points as well as the
TOE. Thus a division may be but a skeleton force,
as may other units. The problem should rarely oc-
cur, as most units are fairly easy to determine as to
size and type, but if there is a question use your
Common Sense (or flip a coin if that commodity is
in short supply). See Section 9.2.

[8.55] Reacting units may never enter an Enemy
Zone of Control during their Reaction Movement.
Otherwise, Reaction is undertaken like normal
movement, with no limit as to how far a unit may
React/Move.

[8.56] A unit may react, within the restrictions
listed in 8.53 above, even if it is attached to a
parent formation. In this case, the CP is expended
for detachment and the unit may then react. A
brigade HQ may not be detached from a division
unless all of the units at present attached to the
brigade HQ are also detached. In addition, the

detachment of units may not be performed such
that the parent unit is vow “‘pinned”’ as a result of
its becoming a shell and having Case 8.54 now ap-
ply. Attached trucks may be freely divided
amongst the parent unit and its detaching and
reacting units. Note that this rule does nor permit a
parent unit to detach low CPA units in order for
the parent unit to now be able to react.

[8.6] BREAKING OFF

([8.61] Breaking Off is a function of Movement
that occurs when a unit beings a Friendly Move-
ment Segment in Contact or Engaged with an
Enemy Combat unit. Contact and Engaged
markers are provided to indicate such status.
(There has been some discussion of this in 8.24; see
also Case 15.81).

[8.62] Units are in Conract if they are inan Enemy
Zone of Control at the beginning of a Movement
Segment.

[8.63] Units are Engaged directly as a result of
Close Assault; Engaged is a combat result. Engag-
ed units do not necessarily have to be in Enemy
Zones of Control. ,

[8.64] A unit in Contact or Engaged with an
Enemy combat unit at the beginning of a Move-
ment Segment or a Retreat Before Assault (not
Reaction) may not move until it has paid a cost in
CP’s to break off such contact. In addition, First
Line Trucks wishing to detach from an Engaged or
Contacted parent unit must expend the necessary
CP’s to so detach. Second/Third Line Trucks
wishing to attach as First Line Trucks to Engaged
or Contacted units do not expend additional CP’s
to so attach,

[8.65] A unit in Contact must expend two CP’s to
Break Off before moving.

[8.66] A unit that is Engaged must expend four
CP’s to Break Off before moving.

[8.67] When all of the Friendly units that were in
Contact or Engaged with an Enemy combat unit
Break Off that Enemy unit is no longer Engaged or
in Contact.

[8.68] Contact and Engaged markers affect only
the combat units in the hex at the time of their
placement. Units moving into a hex with a Contact
or Engaged marker are not affected by that
marker.

[8.7] RAIL MOVEMENT
OF LAND UNITS

[8.71] There are two rail lines in the game. The
Alexandria-Mersa Matruh line is an active rail-
road. It may be extended by construction (see Case
24.6) and may be used only by the Commonwealth
Player, regardless of the strategic situation. The
Soluch-Benghazi-Barce rail line is on the game-
map solely for historical purposes; it may not be
used for anything and has no effect whatsoever on
terrain or movement. (It was used by the Italians in
1940, but not in any way as to affect the game.)

[8.72] The Commonwealth Player may use Rail
Movement once per Operations Stage, in the
Commonwealth Rail Movement Phase. He may
transport units and/or supplies, and he may move
one ‘‘stack’’ of these any distance along the rail
line in each direction. Thus, a unit may be moved
west from Alexandria to any rail hex along a
finished rail line as far as (eventually) Tobruk, and
supplies in Tobruk may be moved eas/to Matruh.

[8.73] To use Rail Movement a unit must start the
Operations Stage ona rail hex, it may not have ex-
pended any CP’s for any other reason during that
Operations Stage, and it may not be in an Enemy
ZOC. The unit is then moved to the desired point
along the line where it stops. It may not enter an
Enemy ZOC or Enemy-occupied hex at any time
while using Rail Movement.

16

