THE AL.
GAME

The following rules Sections cover the air war in
CNA. In essence, all planes are represented in-
dividually, and fighters have pilots. Each type of
plane has differing characteristics and mission
capabilities. All of these are listed in the Aircraft
Characteristics Charts for each nationality. Yet, in
keeping with the tone of the land game, the feel of
the game is operational. While there is plane-to-
plane combat, it is not resolved tactically, and all
strengths have been considered operationally.

Ideally, the air portion of the game requires a
separate Player for each side. There is a large
amount of paperwork involved, and, even though
there were relatively few planes in Africa, a
Player may have to juggle operations for 500 to
1000 aircraft during a given OpStage. The rules for
the Air Game are a lot simpler than those for the
land game. Air Commanders should simply keep
their Characteristics Charts handy and be
prepared to doa lot of planning.

[33.0] SEQUENCE OF PLAY:
Air Game

Note: It is possible to use the Land Game and Air
Game Rules while omitting the Logistics Game
Tules.

LAND/AIR GAME-TURN
SEQUENCE OF PLAY

Play of the game should proceed in accordance
with the following outline.

I. INITIATIVE DETERMINATION STAGE

The Players determine who will have the initiative
for the coming Game-Turn (see Section 7.0). The
Player going first within the Operations Stage (see
below) is known as ‘‘Player A’’; the other is
“Player B’’.

Il. STRATEGIC AIR PLANNING STAGE

A. Designation Phase:
The Players assign their airplanes to fly Land Sup-
port or Strategic missions.

B. Axis Malta Availability Determination Phase
The Axis Player determines the amount of support
he’ will receive from his abstracted N. African
Theatre airforce for Raids on Malta.

C. Strategic Mission Assignment Phase

Planes designated as flying. Strategic missions are
assigned. The Axis Player assigns his planes to
Raids on Malta or naval convoy protection. The
Commonwealth Player assigns his planes to naval
Recon missions or Bombing Reserve.

D. Malta Raid Phase

The Axis Player resolves flak suppression, anti-
aircraft fire and bombing missions against Maltese
air facilities (Note that Commonwealth warships
stationed at Valetta may only be attacked by Land
Support Missions).

Ill. NAVAL CONVOY STAGE

A. Naval Convoy Schedule Phase

The Axis Player refers to the Axis Naval Convoy
Level Chart and then to the Axis Convoy Capacity
Table and rolls one die to determine the total ton-
nage available for the next Game-Turn. He then
plans what specific cargoes the convoys will carry
and their routes.

B. Convoy Resolution Phase

1, Naval Convoy Reconnaissance Segment: The
Allied Player resolves Strategic Convoy
Reconnaissance missions.

2, Convoy Lane Assignment Segment: Axis con-
voy protection aircraft are assigned CAP missions
in specific Convoy Lanes. Commonwealth Bomb-
ing Reserve aircraft are assigned CAP, Flak Sup-
pression or Convoy Bombing missions in specific
convoy lanes.

3. Convoy Bombing Segment: All air-to-air com-
bat, Flak Suppression, anti-aircraft, and convoy
bombing is carried out.

IV. FIRST OPERATIONS STAGE

A. Initiative Declaration Phase

The Player who gained the initiative in Stage I now
states whether he will be ‘‘Player A’’ or ‘‘Player
B’’ for this particular Operations Stage.

B. Weather Determination Phase

The Player with initiative rolls for weather (see
Section 29,0). All adjustments for unusual
weather are made at this time, including any addi-
tional evaporation of Fuel/Water from ‘‘Hot
Weather.”

C. Organization Phase
(The following Segments are undertaken in any
order desired).
1. Reorganization Segment: Attachment and/or
assignment of reinforcements, replacements, or
any other non-assigned units including Trucks
may be undertaken. Detachment of attached units
may also be done.
2. Construction Segment:
a. Construction Completion Step: Any work
scheduled for completion is finished, markers
being removed or added as required. Units that
have completed construction may freely be
moved.
b. Construction Initiation/Continuation Step:
Any continuing (or ensuing) work on projects is
noted. Any units involved in such work may not
be moved (voluntarily) during the remainder of
the current Operations Stage.

3. Training Segment:
a. Training Completion Step: Units and
Replacement Points completing a level of train-
ing are noted and the effects in Morale Applied.
b. Training Initiation/Continuation Step: Any
units beginning or continuing training are
noted. They may not be moved (voluntarily) in
the remainder of the Operations Stage (excep-
tion: Reaction).

4. Supply Distribution Segment: Supplies in the

same.hex as land units may be redistributed at this

time, subject to the maximum innate capacity of

the unit(s) and the hex. Trucks may be
loaded/unloaded:
34

5. Tactical Shipping Strength; Both Players ex-
ecute the transport of cargo between African
ports. Note: Axis coastal ships are represented in
the game by counters. Allied coastal shipping is
not represented by counters, and is limited only by
the port capacities.

D. Naval Convoy Arrival Phase

All land and air reinforcements, Replacement
Points, and Supplies scheduled for arrival (and ac-
tually arriving) appear in their designated ports of
arrival or entrance hexes. Check Reinforcement
Tables and Convoy Rules. The Axis Player plans
for the arrival of future Replacement Points from
the Axis Replacement Points Pool, if he is the
phasing Player. In his first Naval Convoy Arrival

Phase of each month, the Commonwealth Player
consults the Commonwealth Production Table
and determines how many Replacement Points he
will receive one morith hence and plans for their
arrival.

E. Commonwealth Fleet Phase

1. Fleet Assignment Segment: The Com-
monwealth Player assigns his Ships to any Sea or
Coastal hexes for Bombardment purposes.

2. Fleet Repair Segment: Any Repair work on
ships is undertaken at this time.

F. Land Support Air Phase

(Only those planes assigned to Land Support Mis-
sions may be used in this Phase.)

I, Mission Assignment Segment: All planes that
are fueled may be assigned Missions by the Player.

2, Mission Deployment Segment: Counters
representing each type of plane assigned a Mission
are placed in their hex of assignment.

3. Air-to-Air Combat Resolution Segment: Com-
bat between opposing aircraft, including any caus-
ed by Scramble and Interception, is resolved. Mis-
sion aborts may take place before combat resolu-
tion.

4, Flak Resolution Segment: Aircraft in the same
hex as enemy anti-aircraft units undergo Flak fire.

3. Mission Completion Segment: All missions
that can be completed (e.g., bombing, strafing,
etc.) are completed. Aborts may take place here,
too.

6. Return to Base Segment: All surviving aircraft
are returned to their base of origin (excepting
those on transfer missions and some other rare oc-
casions).

7. Tactical Maintenance Segment: Both Players
may attempt to ready all planes eligible to fly land
support missions for the next OpStage.

G. Reserve Designation Phase

Player ‘‘A’’ designates which of his units he is
placing in Reserve Status, indicating that with a
Reserve marker (see Section 18.0).

H. Movement and Combat Phase
The following four Segments comprise the Move-
ment and Combat Phase. Player ‘‘A”’ may, if he
so wishes, repeat Segments 1 through 4 as many
times as he desires within the restrictions of the
Continual Movement rules (8.2). Each repetition
must include all four Segments.
1, Movement Segment: All units except unattach-
ed trucks and tank recovery squadrons not in
reserve and eligible to be moved may be moved.
Non-Phasing Player (‘‘B’’) may move units in ac-
cordance with the Reaction movement rules (see
Case 8.6).
2. Breakdown Determination Segment: All
vehicles and Motorized units of both sides are
checked for Breakdown (Section 21.0). Broken
down vehicles are indicated with an appropriate
marker.
3. Combat Segment:
a. Position Determination Step: Both Players
determine the “position” (Front or Back) of all
Gun and Armor class units. °
b. Barrage Step: Players secretly plot and then
execute any barrages.
c. Retreat Before Assault Step: Player “B”’ may
retreat before assault any of his units eligible to
be so moved (see Section 13.0).
d. Force Assignment Step: Both Players secret-
ly assign TOE Strength Points to anti-armor or
close assault. Player “A” determines which
assaults will be probes (although he need not
reveal this decision) and which TOE Strength
Points will be withheld from assault.
e. Anti-Armor Step: Both of the Players simul-

taneously resolve any anti-armor fire, extract-
ing any casualties. Destroyed tank markers are
deployed as required.
f. Close Assault Step: Close Assaults are resolv-
ed in any order as determined by Player “A.”
He announces which of them are actually probes
after each is resolved.
4, Reserve Release Segment: Player ‘‘A’’ may
release any of his reserves that he wishes to. ~
J. Truck Convoy Movement Phase
Player ‘‘A’’. may move his Second and Third Line
(unattached) Trucks, replacement points and any
POW’s and Guards.
K. Commonwealth Rail Movement Phase
If Player ‘‘A’’ is the Commonwealth Player, he
may utilize rail movement (see Case 8.7) to move
land units or supplies. Otherwise this Phase is
omitted.

L. Repair Phase

1. Towing Segment: Player ‘‘A’’ may tow broken
down and recovered vehicles.

2. Maintenance Segment: Player ‘‘A’’ may at-
tempt to repair broken down, or destroyed
vehicles which were not towed in this Phase.

M. Patrol Phase

If the Phasing Player has not engaged in Assault,
he may use patrols for reconnaissance purposes.

At this point, Phases G, H, J, K, L, and M are
repeated, except that for ‘‘Player ‘A’”’ read
“Player ‘B’’’,

V. SECOND OPERATIONS STAGE

Both Players repeat all facets of the First Opera-
tions Stage.

VI. THIRD OPERATIONS STAGE

Both Players repeat all facets of the First Opera-
tions Stage.

VII. STRATEGIC AIR RECOVERY STAGE

A. Return to Base Phase
All surviving planes from missions flown in Stage
Il are returned to their base or origin if possible.

B. Aircraft Maintenance Phase

Both Players may attempt to ready planes that
have flown missions during the Strategic Air
Stage.

VILL. END OF GAME-TURN

You have now completed one full Game-Turn,
replete with airplanes and sandstorms and the lot!
Congratulations. You may put in for a transfer,
but before doing so, keep in mind that the Russian
Front is the only other active Theatre.

[34.0] THE AIRCRAFT
GENERAL RULE:

Players will be handling individual aircraft in
CNA, each type of plane having its own
characteristics. There are, basically, seven dif-
ferent types of planes: fighters, fighter-bombers,
bombers (also classified as to night bombing
capabilities), dive-bombers, transports, pure rec-
connaissance (some planes with additional
capabilities may also fly recon), and flying boats.
These planes can perform a variety of missions, all
of which fit into one of the following roles: patrol
(support of other planes), combat (bombing or
strafing), recon, or transport.

Each plane is assigned to a specific squadron,
whose Squadrons Ground Support Unit (base) is
placed on the game-map — usually in an air facili-
ty (airfield, air landing strip, flying boat basin or
flying boat alighting area). The Squadron Ground
Support Unit (SGSU) services the planes for that
squadron. The planes themselves are rated as to

range, tactical air combat, bomb load and/or
transport capacity, maneuver capability, fuel con-
sumption and mission capability. Fighters are also
assigned individual Pilots. Planes are useful only if
they have been fueled and refitted after a mission.

CASES:

[34.1] AIRCRAFT CAPABILITIES
{34.11] Range

A Plane’s range is the maximum distance, in hex-
es, that it may be flown fo a hex io perform a mis-
sion. It is also the maximum distance from which it
may return to a base from a mission. There is one
exception to this: planes flying a transfer mission
(simply moving from one air facility to the next)
may be flown a distance equal to twice that of their
listed range. Example: An Mel09E based on a
Landing Strip in hex C3101 may fly to hex C3133
for a strafing mission — a distance of 32 hexes,
within its Range of 41 — and then fly back to its
squadron base at C3101. The Mel09E could not
be flown from the mission hex to an Axis airfield
in A0915 for two reasons: it is too far away and,
generally, all planes must return to their Base of
origin. Planes may not save hexes not flown
(within a plane’s Range) going out and use them
coming back (e.g., the Me109E flies only 10 hexes
to a Mission; it still has a Range of 41 on its
Return, not 41 + 31 — the hexes not used flying fo
the Mission hex.

[34.12] Certain aircraft have more than one listed
Range, usually as a result of an increased fuel
capacity or bombload. Players are free to choose
whichever range load they wish.

[34.13] Tactical Air Combat (TacAir)

This is the aircraft’s combat rating vis a vis other
aircraft, based on the number and type of arma-
ment carried by the plane. A unit with a paren-
thesized TacAir Rating (3) may not initiate air-to-
air combat.

[34.14] Bombload Capacity

This is the number of Bomb Points, called tonnage
(but not actually in tons), that a Plane can carry. If
a Plane can carry torpedoes that fact is listed along
with the bombload capacity.

[34.15] Transport Capacity

This is the capacity of the plane, given in TOE
Strength Points (infantry) and/or tons of supplies
(see Case 54.5 for tonnage equivalents).

[34.16] Maneuver

This is a somewhat abstract rating that simulates
the ability of a plane to fly faster, higher, and with
greater agility than other planes. Maneuver ratings
are always considered in relation to other planes.
Maneuver ratings are used to modify Basic TacAir
Differentials.

[34.17] Fuel Consumption

This is the number of Fuel Points a plane requires
to perform any mission or emergency flight (see
Case 37.3). All Fuel Points are consumed during a
mission, regardless of the type or distance of the
mission.

[34.18] Mission Capability

These are the types of missions that the plane can
undertake. Planes may only undertake missions
for which they have capability. For a more com-
plete description, consult the Section on missions,
39.0.

[34.19] All aircraft Ratings are listed on the Alr-
craft Characteristics Chart, 34.6. No aircraft
counter contains any numbers; players keep track
of all ratings on their various sheets.

FIGHTER FIGHTER

Monoptane

FIGHTER FIGHTER

Biplane

[34.2] FIGHTERS

[34.21] Fighters, as a class of plane, include
fighters (F) as well as fighter-bombers (FB).
Fighter-bombers may fly either as a fighter or
bomber, but not both at the same time. Thus a
fighter-bomber on a bombing mission may not
break off to initiate air-to-air combat, although it
may defend against such normally.

(34.22] Fighters and fighter-bombers usually fly
Combat Air Patrol (CAP) missions; i.e., support
and protection for bombers or a ground facility.
Certain fighters may also strafe Enemy
units/facilities. See the individual missions for
details.

[34.23] Every fighter and fighter-bomber is
assigned a pilot (see Case 40.1). Pilots affect the
plane’s air-to-air combat capability.

[34.24] Certain fighters/fighter-bombers may fly
reconnaissance misssions. Fighters and fighter-
bombers flying recon may not initiate air-to-air
and may not bomb.

DIVE
Bomber

BOMBER BOMBER

[34.3] BOMBERS

[34.31] Bombers, as a class of plane, includes
bombers, dive-bombers and fighter-bombers.

[34.32] Most Bombing Missions are concerned
with dropping bombs (air bombardment) on
targets in order to destroy, reduce or otherwise in-
capacitate them. Different bombers have varied
capabilities ds regards this.

[34.33] Bombers, in and of themselves, are usual-
ly considered as one or sometimes more of the
following: Bombers, Night Bombers (NB), Dive
Bombers (DB), Torpedo Bombers (TB).

[34.34] Dive-bombers are the same as regular
bombers, with one difference: they can perform
two Missions at once. Dive-bombers may both
bomb and strafe the same target.

[34.35] Bombers may never initiate air-to-air
combat; they may only defend if attacked.
However, bombers may increase their TacAir
Ratings if they fly in large formations (see Case
45,36).

[34.36] Certain bombers are capable of transpor-
ting (TT) personnel or supplies.

FLYING FLYING
BOAT BOAT

||

[34.4] FLYING-BOATS (SEAPLANES)

Several planes in the game are flying boats, or
seaplanes (FlyBt). These aircraft have all the nor-
mal range of capabilities that other planes have,
with one exception: they may not be based in, take
off from, or land in airfields or air landing strips.
They must use flying boat basins or flying boat
alighting areas.

TRANSPRT

[34.5] TRANSPORTS

[34.51] Both sides are given planes of minimal
combat value that are used for transporting (TT)
personnel and/or supplies.

[34.52] Transports are given a Transport Capaci-
ty, expressed in TOE strength points or Supply
tons they can carry. Thus, a Ju52 can carry up to
2% tons (or 20 Points) of Fuel or 1 TOE point of
infantry. Transports can never transport vehicles
or motorized units of any type (except motorcycle
units).

[34.53] Transports may never initiate air-to-air
combat. They receive no benefit from formation
flying, as do bombers. Transports are relatively

helpless in the air and must have heavy CAP to in-
sure their arrival.

[34.6] AIRCRAFT CHARACTERISTICS
CHARTS (see Charts and Tables)

[34.7] AIRCRAFT COUNTERS

[34.74] The aircraft counters do not represent in-
dividual planes in the game; they are used to note
the location of planes and facilitate air-to-air com-
bat.

[34.72] Planes on the ground are not represented
by the Squadron Ground Support Unit counter
(see Section 35.0). The actual types and numbers
of plane in that squadron are kept on the
Squadron Composition Sheet. No aircraft
counters are needed.

[34.73] When placing a squadron or squadrons
(or part of a squadron) of planes in a target hex
(the hex in which the mission will occur) the Player
simply places one aircraft counter for each class of
planes (fighter, bomber, transport) in the target
hex to denote that planes of that class are in the
hex. The counters are lettered so that the Players
can note which planes/squadrons are represented
by what counters.

[34.74] If any planes are eliminated, the Player
simply reflects those losses by adjusting that total
on his sheet, not by changing counters. The
counter representing the planes remains in place.

{34.75] When resolving air-to-air combat, Players
may want to use aircraft counters to represent in-
dividual fighters, bombers, etc., so that they may
better visualize what is happening. Players may
therefore take any aircraft counters not on the
game-map and use them as they see fit in represen-
ting the individual planes.

[34.8] AIRFORCE REINFORCEMENTS
AND WITHDRAWLS

The Players receive airforce reinforcements in the
forms of individual pilots, individual planes and
Squadron Ground Support Units (SGSU’s). Low
ranked pilots arrive as needed while higher ranked
pilots arrive randomly. SGSU’s arrive as needed.
Airplane reinforcements follow a fixed schedule:
in addition, the Commonwealth Player is required
to remove various squadrons during the course of
the game.

[34.81] The Commonwealth Player’s airforce
reinforcements may be placed in any air facility in
Malta, Cairo, Alexandria, or Off-map except
Ethiopia. The reinforcements may be divided
amongst the recieving air facilities in any distribu-
tion the Commonwealth Player chooses except as
follows:

A/No more than 10% of a month’s airplane
reinforcements may be sent to Malta.

B/No airplane reinforcements may be sent to a
Malta/N African Off-map air facility in excess of
the facility’s current squadron capacity.

The Axis Player’s airforce reinforcements may
be divided amongst the bases in the
Tripoli/Tunisia boxes and Italy/Sicily/Crete as he
chooses within the requirements concerning bas-
ing German bombers in the Mediterranean (see
Case 43.1).

[34.82] SGSU’s arrive in the Naval Convoy Ar-
rival Phase of the Operations Stage. Axis SGSU’s
may arrive in any Tripoli/Tunisia box. Com-
monwealth SGSU’s may arrive in any Alexan-
dria/Cairo hex. SGSU reinforcements may be
brought in as the Players desire subject to the
following restrictions:

Both Players: An SGSU lost through enemy ac-
tion may not be replaced for one complete Game-
Turn. This is in adddition to any restrictions
below.

Commonwealth Player: A/U.S. Army Airforce

SGSU’s (i.e., those with “USAAF” historical
designations and CPA’s of 30) may not be
brought in until August, 1942 (1/91 Game-Turn).
B/The Commonwealth Player may never have
more SGSU’s in play than the total number of his
planes at on-mapfacilties divided by twelve, plus
two. E.g., if the Commonwealth Player has 438
planes at on-map facilities he may have 39 GSU’s
438 + 12=36%4 +2=39 (rounded up).
C/ The Commonwealth Player may, because of a
counter shortage, find that he is somewhat short
of SGSU’s (there are enough commonwealth
counters to hold approximately 1,200 planes). The
Commonwealth Player may create additional
SGSU counters only if he has the maximum
number of planes possibly based at Com-
monwealth N. Africa off map air facilities (i.c.,
calculate the number from the base’s printed
rather than current capacity). In such a case, he
may create SGSU counters but is still bound by
“B”’ above. These counters may not be U.S.
SGSU’s.

Axis Player:

A/ The Axis Player may never have more German
SGSU’s in play than the total number of his Ger-
man planes based at on-map facilties divided by
ten. E.G., if the Axis player has 286 planes based
on-map he may have 29 German SGSU’s.

B/ The restrictions on Italian SGSU’s in play are
the same as those for German SGSU’s.

C/ Captured Commonwealth planes may count as
part of the on-map planes for the Axis nation to
whose SGSU they are assigned.

D/ The Axis Player may run short of Italian
and/or German SGSU counters. He may only
create more SGSU’s for a nation if at least 30% of
that nation’s total airforce is based at off-map (N.
African and/or Meditteranean) air facilities. This
percentage is of total planes, not by types.

[34.83] One-to Six-Rated Pilot reinforcements ar-
rive during the Naval Convoy Arrival Phase of the
First Op Stage of each month. The Players always
possess as many zero-rated pilots as needed for
any situation (including emergency flight).

The Players determine the number and rating
of pilot reinforcements once a month, at the instant

of their arrival. The owning player consults the ap- .

propriate Pilot Arrival Table (Case 34.88 or 34.89)
and if pilots are available, makes a single roll of
two dice (although separate rolls for the German
and Italian pilots). The Player adds the dice
together and cross indexes the result under: all of
the columns to determine the number of pilots of
that nationality of each rating that he receives for
that month (note that Hauptmann Hans-Joachim
Marseille arrives automatically.)

[34.84] Airplane reinforcements arrive. in the
Naval Convoy Arrival Phase. The reinforcements
are listed as to the total of each type of plane arriv-
ing during that month (the beginning of the cam-
paign has arrivals during certain specific game-
turns instead of months). The planes must be
divided amongst the weeks as evenly as possible
and all of the planes arriving during a game-turn
may arrive in the First Op Stage of that game-turn
at the owning Player’s choice (i.e., the Players
need only divide the total by four, not twelve). The

individual planes arriving are determined freely by
the owning Player. E.g., in January of 1941 the
Commonwealth Player receives a total of 59
planes (44 Hurricanes, 12 Blenheims, 2 Well-
ingtons and 1 Maryland). The Commonwealth
Player could have 15 Hurricanes arrive the first
game-turn; 10 Hurricanes, 2 Blenheims, the
Maryland and both Wellingtons arrive the second
game-turn; 15 Hurricanes arrive the third game-
turn and 10 Blenheims and 4 Hurricanes arrive the
fourth game-turn.

[34.85] The Commonwealth Player is required to
withdraw certain squadrons during the course of
the game. The dates, squadron types and plane re-
quirements are listed in the Commonwealth
Airplane Reinforcement and Squadron Withdrawl
Schedule (Case 34.86). Squadron withdrawls are
performed at the beginning of the month in-
dicated. Squadrons may be withdrawn from any
air facility on Malta or game map section “‘E’’.
The Commonwealth Player simply removes from
play all of the planes and pilots assigned to that
squadron. :

SGSU’s are not removed unless they now exceed
the limit determined in Case 34.82.

[34.86] Commonwealth Airplane Reinforcement
and Squadron Withdrawal Schedule
(see Charts and Tables)

[34.87] Axis Airplane Reinforcement Schedule
(see Charts and Tables)

[34.88] Commonwealth Pilot Arrival Table.
(see Charts and Tables)

[34.89] Axis Pilot Arrival Tables.
(see Charts and Tables)

[35.0] SQUADRON GROUND
SUPPORT UNITS

COMMENTARY:

All planes are attached to a specific squadron, and
each squadron is represented by a Squadron
Ground Support Unit (SGSU), which is the base
for that squadron. Each squadron has its own
Squadron Composition Sheet, and the planes and
pilots — as well as supplies — attached and avail-
able to that squadron are listed on it. The
squadron is the basic unit for the Air Game, and
finds its counterpart in the German ‘‘Staffel’’ and
Italian ‘‘Squadriglia.’’ Actually, the Squadron
was next-to-lowest in air hierarchy (above the
Flight); squadrons were part of wings, which were,
in turn, part of groups (and their Axis counter-
parts). However, most of this was for purely ad-
ministrative purposes. Therefore, the only
organizational level CNA covers is the Squadron.

GENERAL RULE:

Squadrons — specifically the SGSU’s — are used
to maintain and supply the ‘aircraft assigned to
them. Each SGSU may contain only one class of
airplane, and it is limited-as to the number of
planes it may handle effectively. The SGSU
counters are considered vehicles (medium trucks)
and have their own Capability Point Allowance
printed on the counter. They have no combat
values.

[35.1] SGSU CHARACTERISTICS

[35.11] An SGSU counter acts as base for all
planes assigned to that squadron. Each SGSU
counter is placed on the game-map to indicate
where that squadron is located. They are usually
placed at air facilities. SGSU counters do not in-
clude the airplanes attached to the squadron;

SGSU’s are the mechanics, trucks, equipment,
etc., that are part of that squadron. They are not
“air” units.

[35.12] SGSU’s have their Capability Point
Allowance printed on the counter; they are
vehicles. SGSU’s move in the Truck Convoy
Phase. They have no Stacking Point Value and
may stack freely with other units. (Their capability
to handle the planes in their squadron is limited by
the Capacity Level of the air facility they are based
at.) SGSU’s have no combat strength of any type;
if an Enemy combat unit moves adjacent to an
SGSU that has no Friendly combat unit stacked
with it, that SGSU may react (if possible). If it can-
not react, it is eliminated.

[35.13] SGSU‘s arrive according to the orders of
the player (See Case 34.8). Each SGSU has a unit
designation (squadron ID number). These
numbers are historical, but they are not used
historically. If an SGSU counter is eliminated, it
may be returned to play, as per 34.8, one Game-
Turn later.

[35.14] SGSU’s require a certain amount of sup-
plies themselves to function. Each SGSU must ex-
pend one Stores Point per Game-Turn. In addi-
tion, each SGSU requires one Fuel Point and one
Water Point per Operations Stage. SGSUs without
the required supplies (for themselves) may not
repair their planes. (Maintaining the planes will, of
course, require additional supplies of Fuel and
Ammunition).

[35.15] Truck units may be attached to an SGSU
as First Line Transport. They are used to carry the
supplies that the SGSU needs to keep its planes fit
and readied.

[35.16] SGSUs may be used to construct air land-
ing facilities or flying boat alighting areas (see
Case 24.7).

[35.17] SGSUs are necessary to refuel and refit
airplanes; only SGSUs can perform such tasks.
Aircraft may refuel at any SGSU: their own
squadron or another squadron base. However,
refitting must be performed at their assigned
squadron base (SGSU) for maximum efficiency. If
a plane attempts to refit at an SGSU other than its
assigned squadron, the Player adds one to his
dieroll for refit. In addition, Players should
remember that planes may not be refueled or refit-
ted beyond the capacity of the air facility (see Case
36.12, 36.2, 36.3 and 36.4).

[35.18] The United States Army Air Force (USAF
on the counters) SGSU’s may not be used prior to
Aug. 1, 1942.

[35.2] SQUADRON COMPOSITION

[35.21] Each Squadron must contain the same

class of aircraft: i.e., bomber, fighter or transport
(recon planes may be assigned anywhere). Fighter-
bombers may go into either. Furthermore, it is
recommended (but nota rule) that only one type of
plane (e.g., Hurricane IIC or Ju87D, etc.) be
assigned to a squadron. The latter is for ease in
handling and supervision. The composition of
each squadron is noted on the squadron’s Com-
position Sheet.

[35.22] Planes may not change squadron assign-
ments, with two exceptions:

a. The squadron’s SGSU has been eliminated. In
such case the aircraft are free to transfer to any
other squadron, or they may be placed in reserve.
b. A squadron falls below 50% ready Capacity.
Planes may then be transferred from other
squadrons to bring that squadron back to a more
than 50% capacity.

Planes reassigned to a new squadron are given a
transfer mission (to fly to their new base), unless
the new SGSU is in the same hex as the plane.

[35.23] The number of planes that may be assign-
ed to a squadron is limited and dependent on the
nationality of the squadron. Each squadron’s limit
is the maximum number of ready planes it can
handle; a squadron can always keep 4 more in
reserve (whether ready or not). Thus, a squadron
with a capacity of 12 may contain 16 planes: 12
ready to fly, and 4 (4 of 12) in reserve (and in-
capable of performing a mission). The capacities
are as follows:

Ready Reserve
Nationality Capacity Capacity
Italian Squadriglia 9 3 (12 total)
German Staffel 12 4 (16 total)
Commonwealth
Squadron
(1940-June ’41) 15 5 (20 total)
Commonwealth

Squadron (July 41-43) 18 6 (24 total)

Players will note that starting with July 1941 Com-
monwealth Squadrons increase their capacity.

[35.24] Pilots (see Case 40.1) for fighter and
fighter bombers are assigned to squadrons, not to
specific planes. A record of pilots in a squadron is
kept on the Squadron Composition Sheet, and
pilots are given specific planes when they fly mis-
sions.

[35.25] Assignment and transfer of planes, where
flying is unnecessary, is done in the Organization
Phase. Otherwise, assignment and transfer are
done in the Mission Deployment Segment (as a
transfer mission).

[35.26] As noted, each squadron may keep a cer-
tain number of planes in reserve. These planes may
be readied and armed (or not, as the Player sees
fit), but they cannot fly if the ready capacity of
that squadron is flying. Reserves are used to sup-
plement aircraft that were not readied. Reserves
may not scramable. They amy use emergency
flight (see Case 37.3).

(35.27] If an SGSU is eliminated (see Case 35.12)
and there are planes on the ground with the SGSU,
the plaries are captured. They may be used by the
opposing Player one Game-Turn later or
destroyed as he sees fit.

[35.28] Italian and German planes may not coex-
ist in the same squadron. They require separate
maintenance. However, Italian squadrons may
consist entirely of German planes (but ot vice ver-
sa).

[35.29] A historical note: Although the Com-
monwealth and Italian SGSU’s are in-
distinguishable as to type of aircraft handled (at
least on the face of the counter), the German
SGSU’s are not. Each SGSU represents a specific
type of plane. The Players need not follow this
representation, as the SGSU’s do not represent
strict squadron OB. However, for those so inclin-
ed, JG Squadrons are Fighters, St.G. Squadrons
are for Dive Bombers, KG for Bombers, ZG for
Fighter-Bombers, and H and F Squadrons for
Recon. (All, of course, with a few exceptions.)

[36.0] ADR FACILITIES
GENERAL RULE:

Air facilities include airfields, air landing strips,
flying boat basins and flying boat alighting areas.
These facilities are differentiated by the type and
number of planes they can handle in terms of flight
and maintenance. Air facilities are constructed
(see Case 24.7), and counters are provided for that
purpose for each type of air facility. Some air
facilities exist at the start of each Scenario; these

are noted in the instructions for that Scenario. Air
facilities may be damaged and/or destroyed by
Enemy bombardment. The number of SGSU’s
and airplaines which can use an air facility is
dependent upon its current capacity level. Thus
take-off, recovery, and maintenance are limited.

6
CASES:

(36.1) AIRFIELDS

[36.11] Airfields are fully-equipped and
engineered air facilities, with repair shops, full
maintenance facilities and runway capacity for a
large number of squadrons. Airfield construction
is covered in Case 24.7. Each airfield is noted by an
airfield counter in the hex in which the airfield has
been constructed.

[36.12] Each Airfield has a capacity level of six
(maximum). This means that it may handle a max-
imum of six squadrons (regardless of squadron
size) at any one time. There may never be more
than six SGSU’s in a given airfield hex. However,
see Case 36.5.

[36.13] If an airfield is landing six squadrons
planes in a given Operations Stage, it may not
receive any more airplanes, even in an emergency.
Such excess planes must seek other fields or strips
at which to land. Likewise, no more than six
squadron’s worth of planes may be readied at a
given airfield (see Aircraft Maintenance Section
38.0).

EE

[36.14] The capacity of an airfield (its levels) may
be reduced by enemy bombardment (air or ar-
tillery). Players should keep track of the capacity
level of an airfield. Thus, if bombing has reduced
the capacity of an airfield from six to three, that
airfield may handle only three squadrons at a time,
until it is built back up to six. Note that, regardless
of the capacity of an airfield, each airfield may still
have six SGSU’s with it, even though some may
not be able to function because of a reduced
capacity level. If an airfield is reduced to zero
capacity, it is considered destroyed for all ‘pur-
poses.

[36.15] Airfields may also be damaged by desert
raiders. However, normal land units never damage
airfields (except by barrage; see Cases 36.14 and
12.5). Land combat units may capture or destroy
(entirely) an airfield by occupying its hex. Airfields
are, in essence, non-denominational; they may be
used by anyone.

[36.16] Players should keep in mind that, while it
is the airfield that has the capacity for
maintenance, it is the SGSU that actually performs
that maintenance (see Case 35.17).

[36.17] An airfield is a supply dump for supplies
to be used by the SGSU’s on that airfield. Fuel,
ammunition, stores, etc., may be stored at an air-
field as if it were a dump. Land units may no? use
airfield supply dumps unless it is an emergency.
(Exactly what constitutes an emergency is left to
the Player.) Any SGSU at an airfield may make
use of the supplies there to maintain and ready its
planes.

[36.18] Airfields have an intrinsic anti-aircraft
Strength Point of one (in addition to any other
anti-aircraft units present). The Strength Point
may only be used against planes on strafing
and/or dive-bombing combat missions.

fal

H

[36.2] AIR LANDING STRIPS

Air landing strips are simply locations cleared and
leveled for take-offs and landings, with only
minimal maintenance facilities. They are

represented by air landing strip counters, and they
are treated exactly as airfields except that each air
landing strip has a maximum squadron capacity of
one. If that capacity level is destroyed, the strip is
eliminated and removed from the game-map (see
Case 24.7 for construction details, and Case 36.1
for capacity details).

Be

[36.3] FLYING BOAT BASINS

Flying boat basins are ‘‘airfields’’ for flying boat
seaplanes. All flying boats must use a flying boat
basin (or alighting area) for landing and
maintenance. They may not use airfields or lan-
ding strips. Basins have the same features as an air-
field, with the exception that their Capacity is
three Squadrons. Construction details are in Case
24.7. Players should note that they can bring sup-
plies to a flying boat basin simply by bringing
trucks into the hex; they need no other transport.
Flying boat basins are placed in any coastal hex.
As with airfields, flying boat basins have one in-
trinsic Strength Point of anti-air (see Case 36.18).
Flying boat basins may not be used for normal air-
craft.

wa"
[36.4] FLYING BOAT T
ALIGHTING AREAS

Alighting Areas are the same as flying boat basins,
except that they have a capacity of one Squadron
and they are immune to artillery barrage. They are
still susceptible to Air Bombardment (see Cases
24.7 and 41.36).

[36.5] OFF-MAP AIR FACILITIES

There are several off-map air facilities: e.g., the
Tunisia boxes, the Commonwealth facilities such
as Deversoir, on map E, et cetera. These are
treated the same as other, on-map facilities with
three exceptions:

a) There are unlimited supplies for airplane
maintenance and repair;

b) They may exceed the SGSU limit up to the
limit listed on the field;

3) They may never be destroyed by bombing
(although they may be reduced to zero), and may
be rebuilt using the Malta AirFacility Construc-
tion Table (one roll gives total levels for all CW air
facilities each game-turn).

Axis Mediterranean bases are also different in

one other way: they may not be bombed.

[37.0] FLIGHT

GENERAL RULE:

Flight is movement of aircraft. Flight is handled
operationally: planes are simply assigned to fly to
a given hex from a given hex. The path of flight in
hexes may not exceed the plane’s range. When the
plane is to be moved, it is simply placed in its target
hex, noting the path of flight (hexes it flies
through) for purposes of CAP interception.
Planes must be refueled to fly, and all planes ex-
cept those flying transfer missions must be refitted
to fly again (after they have flown any other mis-
sion). Flight is never affected by the presence of
ground units, with the exception of flak fire.

CASES:

[37.1] THE MECHANICS OF FLIGHT

{37.11] All planes have a range (see Case 34.11).
This determines how far a plane may fly in any one
direction (unless the plane is flying a transfer mis-
sion, in which case it may double its range for the
one-way flight).

[37.12] To move a plane, the Player notes the
location of the target hex for that mission and
counts the distance in hexes, using any path he
wishes, from the base/air facility to the target hex.
If the number of hexes falls within the range of the
plane, the plane may be flown to that hex (see
Cases 37.4 and 56.18).

[37.13] Having determined the path of flight, the
Player takes an aircraft counter to represent each
class of plane that is assigned to a mission in that
hex and places that counter (or counters) in the
target hex. The Player will have a record of what
missions each squadron is undertaking. Flight
takes place in the Mission Deployment Segment of
the Land Support Air Phase, or in the Malta and
Convoy Bombing Segments of the Strategic Air
Stage.

[37.14] There is a form of flight called scramble,
wherein planes on the ground may take off to
counterattack a nearby air threat (see Case 40.3).

[37.15] No plane may fly unless it has been fueled.
Furthermore, other than units flying transfer mis-
sions, no plane may fly unless it has been refitted
(see Case 37.32).

[37.16] If a plane that has been fueled flies any
distance it uses a// its Fuel and must be refueled to
fly again.

[37.17] Planes may be flown without Ammuni-
tion, although this could be a dangerous practice.

[37.2] RESTRICTIONS ON FLIGHT

[37.21] Planes may never exceed their range in any
one direction, unless they are flying transfer mis-
sions. Planes flying transfer may double their
range for the one-way transfer trip.

[37.22] No plane may fly into or out of a sand-
storm or rainstorm hex.

[37.23] Planes must return to their base of origin;
i.e., where the Flight started from. If, for some
reason, that air facility had been so reduced that it
cannot hold the returning planes then — and only
then — may planes attempt to land elsewhere. If
such a plane cannot land at any air facility it must
crash land as close to an air facility as it can get.
The Player then rolls one die. If he rolls a 1, 2, or 3
the plane — and pilot — survive the landing. The
plane and the pilot are recovered during the next
OpStage, and both may be ready to fly (pending
refitting, etc.) in the following OpStage. If the
plane does not survive (a roll of 4, 5, or 6), roll the
die again. If the Player rolls a 1 or 2 the second
time, the pilot survives the crash and escapes

serious injury and may return to play one Game-

Turn following his crash.

[37.24] No planes may fly in excess of the air
facility’s capability level. Moreover, no planes
may fly in excess of an SGSU’s ready capacity (see
Case 33.23). Thus, if there are five SGSU’s on an
airfield, but the capacity level of that airfield has
been reduced to two, only two of those SGSU’s
may refit and ready their planes (thus enabling
them to fly). The other three squadrons are forced
to remain inactive because of the reduced field
capacity. Likewise, an Italian squadron (for ex-
ample) could send no more than nine planes on a
mission, regardless of how many planes it has
ready (as reserves).

[37.3] EMERGENCY FLIGHT

37.31] Ifan Enemy land combat unit moves adja-
cent to a Friendly air facility that has readied
planes on the ground, and those planes are in
danger of being destroyed or captured by that
Enemy unit, the readied planes may attempt an
emergency flight to escape such danger. Emergen-
cy flight is a transfer mission

[37.32] Only fueled planes — including reserves
— may make an emergency flight.

[37.33] The Player assigns pilots and then rolls
once for each plane attempting to escape. Using
one die, if the plane is a fighter or fighter bomber
and he rolls a 1, 2, or 3, or if the plane is a bomber,
recon, or transport and the Player rolls a 1 or 2,
then the plane escapes. On any other die roll, the
plane must remain on the ground.

[37.34] Emergency flight follows all normal rules
of flight, except that it occurs out of sequence.
Planes performing emergency flight may be flown
up to double their range.

[37.35] The Player must exercise this option im-
mediately. If an Enemy unit moves adjacent and
the Friendly Player does not roll for emergency
flight prior to the movement of another Enemy
unit, all planes are stuck on the ground.

[37.4] DISTANCE CHARTS
(see Charts and Tables)

The Air Distance Table is provided as a handy
reference to determining distances in hexes bet-
ween major points. Considering the size of the
game-map, counting hexes can bea chore.

[38.0] AIRCRAFT
MAINTENANCE

GENERAL RULE:

In order to fly, planes must by ready. A readied
plane is one that is refitted and fueled (being arm-
ed is optional, although it is a major contributor to
plane survival). SGSU’s have the capability of rea-
dying (i.e., performing maintenance on) planes.
Aircraft maintenance is limited to each air facility’s
current squadron capacity. Planes may be refueled
and rearmed by an SGSU without penalty,
although refitting is performed with maximum ef-
ficiency by the squadron’s own SGSU.

CASES:

[38.1] READYING AIRCRAFT

An airplane that is readied is one capable of per-
forming a mission. Readying aircraft is perform-
ing maintenance so that the planes may be capable
of flight and combat. There are three different
types of maintenance. The different types of
maintenance are:

a. Fuel. A plane must have fuel to fly; no plane
may fly without being refueled up to its capacity.

b. Refit. Refitting is repairing wear and tear from
the previous mission. Desert flying proved ex-
tremely tough on planes, and keeping them flying
was even tougher.

c. Arming. In order to engage in air-to-air a plane
must have ammunition. In order to engage in
bombing missions, a bomber must have bombs.

[38.2] REFUELING AIRCRAFT

[38.21] Planes must have fuel to fly. The amount
of fuel needed to refuel a plane is its Fuel Con-
sumption Rating, listed on the Aircraft
Characteristics Chart. That is the number of Fuel
Points required to enable one plane of that type to
fly any one mission.

[38.22] Planes are refueled at air facilities by
SGSU’s. The SGSU does the actual refueling; the
airfield or air strip simply limits the number of
SGSU’s that may operate there.

[38.23] An SGSU may refuel planes from any
squadron. However, it may never refuel more
planes than the maximum capacity of that SGSU

(readied plus reserve). Therefore, an Italian SGSU
can handle refueling chores for a total of 12
planes, regardless of squadron assignment, in a
given Operations Stage or 12 planes in a given
Strategic Maintenance Phase.

[38.24] To refuel a plane the necessary fuel must
be in the hex containing the air facility (which
usually acts as a supply dump for its planes). The
fuel is subtracted from the total supply in the air
facility, and the plane is marked as refueled on the
Squadron Composition Sheet. This is done. for
each plane that a Player wishes to refuel. Refuel-
ing takes place in the Tactical Maintenance Seg-
ment or the Strategic Maintenance Phase, depen-
ding on the class of mission assigned.

[38.25] Planes do not have to be refueled (if the
Player does not wish to use them), nor do refueled
planes have to fly. Planes in reserve for a squadron
may be refueled. Planes may sit refueled without
flying for the entire game; fuel never gets stale.

[38.26] Players will note that certain aircraft have
the capability of adding to their range by carrying
extra fuel (or, to be exact, extra fuel tanks). This
decreases their maneuverability but adds greatly to
their range. Such tangs may be jettisoned if the
planes become involved in air-to-air combat, in
order to increase their maneuverability. In such
case the Maneuver Rating reverts to its highest
(normal) value, but the range of the plane also
reverts to its lower range. This could cause pro-
blems in terms of getting back to base.

[38.3] REFITTING AIRCRAFT

Refitting aircraft is repairing and maintaining
them so that they can fly another mission. In order
to fly any mission other than a transfer, a plane
must be refitted.

[38.31] At the start of a Scenario, all planes are
considered refitted, unless otherwise indicated. As
soon as a plane flies any mission other than
transfer, it must be refitted again. A plane that is
not refitted may fly no mission other than
transfer, even if it is refueled.

[38.32] Refitting takes place in the Tactical
Maintenance Segment, for planes assigned tactical
missions, and in the Strategic Mainteriance Phase,
‘for planes assigned strategic missions.

[38.33] Planes are refitted at air facilities by their
SGSUs. It is the capacity of the SGSU that counts;
the air facility only limits the number of SGSUs
allowed. Each SGSU can refit up to the maximum
planes the SGSU can contain (Ready plus
Reserve). An SGSU can Refit planes from other
squadrons; however, when doing so, the Player
must add one to his refit dieroll if the plane being
refitted is not assigned to the SGSU doing the

work.
SGSU
274RAF
25

[38.34] Refitting is not a guaranteed process, like
refueling. Players must roll for each squadron
undergoing refit. If planes not belonging to that
squadron undergo,a refit attempt, they are rolled
for separately from the rest of the squadron. The
Player simply determines the number of aircraft in
the squadron undergoing refit and throws one die,
making any adjustments (see Case 38.35) and con-
sulting the Aircraft Refit Table (38.38). The
table gives him the percentage of planes successful-
ly refitted. (Round all fractions up.)

[38.35] When rolling for refit, the Player adds one

to his die roll if the planes do not belong to the
squadron attempting the refit. If the planes at-

tempting refit are Italian, the Player (be he Axis or
Commonwealth) adds two to the dieroll. If the
planes are German, add one to the dieroll. The af-
fects may be cumulative.

[38.36] For every squadron undergoing an at-
tempted refit — whether successful or not — the
Player must have present and actually expend one
Stores Point. A Player is not required to try to refit
any plane; the choice to refit or not is up to him.

[38.37] Twenty percent (rounded up) of all re-
fitted planes in a hex on the ground in which there
is a sandstorm must be refitted again before they
can be flown. Players should distribute this effect
as equally as possible.

[38.38] Aircraft Refit Table
(see Charts and Tables)

[38.39] Players wishing to use a more painstaking
if (slightly) more accurate, method of refitting
planes may roll for each plane individually. The
Player, in this case, rolls two dice. The Com-
monwealth Player refits a plane on a roll of 2
through 8; the Axis Player refits German planes on
a roll of 2-7, the Italian planes on 2-6. The effects
of Case” 38.35 are increased to adding two to the
diceroll to account for the ‘‘wrong’’ squadron.
(This was, with some minor variations, the method
used by the Playtesters. I can’t truthfully say they
lovedit...).

[38.4] ARMING AIRCRAFT

[38.41] Aircraft are armed to provide them with
ammunition for combat and bombing. Arming is
not necessary for flight; it is necessary to fly a
bombing mission — and for safety.

[38.42] Planes are rearmed by SGSU’s with the
same limits and restrictions as applied to refueling.
Ammunition comes from the air facility (supply
dump).

[38.43] Each squadron requires one Ammunition
Point to allow its planes to use their TacAir
Rating. If that point is not supplied, each plane
has a TacAir Rating of zero and may not fire at
any Enemy planes (see Case 46.21).

[38.44] For bomb tonnage, one Ammunition
Point is required for all bombs loaded onto a
plane. Thus a bomber with a tonnage capacity of
15 would need and expend only one Ammunition
Point to carry its maximum bomb load (see Case
41.22).

[38.45] A plane’s bombload, whether used or not,
is expended during a mission including Emergency
Flight. (It was dangerous to land with bombs, so if
unused after an abort they were often dropped in
the sea or into the desert).

[38.46] The armament status of a plane may be
noted on the Squadron Composition Sheet.

[38.47] The cost in Ammo Points to load a
bomber with mines (see Case 41.39) or torpedoes
(see Case 41.7) is one Point.

[39.0] MISSIONS

GENERAL RULE:

No plane may fly without being given.a specific
mission. A mission is a one or two word descrip-
tion of the undertaking, the reason the plane is fly-
ing and what it is supposed to do. Generally, no
plane may perform more than one mission at any
one time. Theré are a large variety of missions, and
they are all dependent on the class of plane and the
target. The various missions and their descriptions
are covered in a series of Cases following 39.1,
which is general in nature. Missions may be
aborted, or discontinued before completion.

Note: Often players may not know precisely what
is in a hex, but will have to assign missions
“blindly,’? and only find out what target are pre-
sent when the planes arrive.

PROCEDURE:

Most missions involve different planes going after
different types of targets. However, virtually all
missions (except transfer) follow the same pattern.
The sequence below should be followed for all
missions, with exceptions taken as specifically
noted in a mission description.

a. All Planes are placed in their mission target
hex.

b. Resolve all interception and scramble.

c. Any air-to-air combat between fighters is
resolved.

d. Fighters on CAP that sutvive air-to-air may,
under certain circumstances, attack Enemy non-
fighter planes.

e. Any planes remaining in hex after air-to-air
undergo flak fire if there are Enemy AA/Flak
units in that hex.

f. Each mission is run in any order the Player
wishes, the opposing Player noting and taking any
damage inflicted.

g. Allsurviving planes return to base.

CASES:

[39.1] MISSIONS IN GENERAL

[39.11] Unless a plane is attempting emergency
flight (see Case 37.3), no plane may fly unless it
has been assigned a specific mission. Nor may any
plane be flown if an Enemy land combat unit is ad-
jacent (see 37.3).

[39.12] Each Player may use any shorthand he
wishes to note which mission is which. Each
Squadron Composition Sheet has a section for
listing the mission that a specific plane is under-
taking in a given Operations Stage or Strategic Air
Phase. The Player simply writes the mission next
to the plane, and that plane will attempt that mis-
sion.

[39.13] There are two major areas of missions:
strategic air missions and Tactical Land Support.
The former refers to any Commonwealth Missions
flown against Axis Naval Convoys as well as any
Axis Missions flown against Malta. Both of these
Missions are flown only in the Strategic Air Phase
of the Sequence of Play; moreover, they are flown
only once per Game-Turn.

[39.14] Tactical land support missions are mis-
sions flown during an Operations Stage of the
Game-Turn, affecting the movements and usage
of land (or naval) units. Tactical land support mis-
sions are numerous in type and they are flown a
possible three times a Game-Turn (or once an
Operations Stage).

[39.15] There is no limit to the number of planes
that may be assigned to a given mission to a given
hex. There is a restriction to the type and class of
plane that can undertake a given mission, as no
plane may perform a mission for which it does not
have the Capability. Plane Capabilities are listed
on the Aircraft Characteristics Chart (34.6).

[39.16] Planes from different squadrons may be
assigned to the same mission (or even target), and
planes from the same squadron may be assigned to
different missions. However planes from the same
squadron may not be divided between strategic
and land support missions.

[39.17] There is no limit to the number of the type
of missions that may occur in (or rather over) a
given hex (limited, of course, by what is in that hex

worth going after). Players should keep the planes
assigned to each specific mission separate, so as to
avoid confusion.

[39.18] There are basically five ‘‘types’’ of mis-
sions: fighter, bomber, transport recon and
transfers. The later mission is the only mission that
may be undertaken by any plane (see Case 42.1)

[39.19] Generally, a plane may fly only one mis-
sion per Operations Stage or Strategic Phase (with
the exception of certain fighters and dive bombers;
Case 39.2). A plane flying a mission in an Opera-
tions Stage may not fly in the Strategic Phase of
that Game-Turn and Vice versa.

[39.2] COMBINED MISSIONS

Planes can generally fly only one mission per
flight. However, certain fighter aircraft had the
ability to carry small bombloads, dropping them
as they strafed a target. The Stukas, as dive
bombers, also had this capability, although their
armament placement prohibited them from per-
forming in a fighter capacity. Thus, any plane with
a capability notation of D(‘‘dual’’) may strafe and
bomb the same target as a combined mission.

[39.3] VOLUNTARILY ABORTED
MISSIONS

{39.31] An aborted mission is one that is cancelled
before any action is taken to complete that mis-
sion. No mission may be voluntarily aborted once
some action, be it bombing, strafing, or even air-
to-air combat, has taken place.

[39.32] To voluntarily abort a mission a Player
simply states that he wishes to abort; he then sends
his planes back to base — if they qualify (see Cases
39.36 and 39,37).

[39.33] Aborted missions consume fuel, and
bombers must expend their bombload, even
though they do not use it.

[39.34] A Player is not required to abort all his
planes on a given mission. He may choose to con-
tinue with some and send some back. The choice,
when available, is up to him, within the restric-
tions below.

{39.35] Any fighter (any plane with a pilot, in-
cluding fighter-bombers) may voluntarily abort if
its Maneuver Rating is no lower than 10 Points the
highest maneuver-rated Enemy Fighter on CAP in
the Target hex. To determine this, subtract the
“aborting’’ fighter’s Maneuver Rating from that
of the Enemy CAP fighter. If the result is — 10 or
better (—8, —2, +3, etc.) the plane may abort. Of
course, if there is no Enemy CAP, the fighters may
always abort (exception: see Case 40.26).

[39.36] Non-fighters flying with a sufficient
fighter Screen (Friendly fighters flying CAP for
that hex; see Case 39.37) may abort if they wish. If
there is not sufficient fighter Screen, they may not
abort, unless the planes’ Maneuver Rating is
higher than the best Enemy fighter (a highly
unlikely occurrance).

[39.37] A sufficient fighter screen is defined as a
number of Friendly fighters (simply counting
numbers of planes, not ratings) equivalent to at
least 25% of the number of Enemy Fighters flying
CAP in that hex. Thus a bomber raid with 12
fighters as escort encountering 40 Enemy fighters
on CAP could be aborted; if there were 50 Enemy
planes flying CAP, the bomber mission could not
be aborted. Fighters acting as such a screen may
not abort if they act as a screen. Fighters cannot
screen fighters,

[39.38] Aircraft may also abort involuntarily;
e.g., as aresult of AA/flak fire (see Case 46.3 and
45.14).

[39.4] NIGHT MISSION

{39.41] Night Missions are essentially a Phase
within the Land SupportAir Phase. All Night
Scramble, air-to-air combat, anti-aircraft fire and
land support bombing are conducted separately
from other Land Support Missions.

[39.42] Only certain missions may be flown at
night and only planes with night missions capabili-
ty may participate in any night missions actions
(exceptions see Case 39.43).

[39.43] Planes, with the exception of planes
assigned Offensive CAP or Scramble missions,
may only perform a mission at night if specifically
assigned a night mission. In all other situations a
plane, even if it possesses night mission capability,
is considered to be performing a regular Land Sup-
port Mission.

[39.44] Planes flying at night benefit from the
decrease in the ability of enemy aircraft to find
them (e.g., planes on night missions may not be In-
tercepted), may not engage enemy aircraft in air-
to-air combat, and benefit from a decrease in the
effectiveness of anti-aircraft fire. Conversely,
non-fighters may not benefit from Formation Fly-
ing while performing a night mission.

[39.5] AIR MISSION SUMMARY
(see Charts and Tables)

[40.0] FIGHTER COMBAT

GENERAL RULE:

Fighters may fly a variety of missions. The most
common fighter mission is combat air patrol (or
CAP). Fighters may also fly strafing missions and
flak suppression missions. Fighters are also
capable of scramble, a form of interception CAP.
A number of fighters are capable of carrying
bombloads (especially fighter-bombers); these
fighters are so noted and they may participate in
bombing missions (see Section 41.0). Each fighter
is flown by a pilot, whose Pilot Rating will affect
the plane’s air-to-air combat ability. Fighters may
be assigned to only one mission in an Operations
Stage (three in one Game-Turn) or Strategic Air
Stage (one in one entire Game-Turn; see Case
39.2).

PROCEDURE:

Players assign each fighter/fighter-bomber or
squadron a mission in a specific hex. Once the
planes reach the target hex, the Player must then
assign each plane or squadron to a particular
target of the type previously selected (e.g., fighters
assigned to offensive CAP would be assigned par-
ticular Enemy aircraft to atack only after they
were in their target hex; fighters assigned to a
strafing mission against ‘‘first-line Trucks’’ would
be assigned trucks attached to a specific parent
formation only after the planes had reached the
hex (and any air-to-air combat and flak fire had
been resolved).

[40.1] PILOTS

[40.11] Pilots are not represented by counters.
Rather, pilots enter the game through the Rein-
forcement Track as ‘‘numbers,’’ the number refer-
ring to the pilot’s Rating. Each Player notes the
pilots he is receiving and assigns them to his
squadrons as they arrive. Consult the various Pilot
Arrival Tables to see how this works.

[40.12] Pilots are assigned to squadrons. They are
assigned to a particular squadron — and become
available for use by that squadron — in the first
Operations Stage of the turn of their Arrival. As
each squadron usually contains only one type of
plane, that is the type of plane the pilot is trained
to fly. Thus a pilot assigned to a squadron of Hur-
ricanes is trained to fly Hurricanes.

(40.13) Pilots may be reassigned to different
squadrons at any time. A pilot is reassigned simply
by switching him from one Squadron’s Composi-
tion List to another. A pilot that is being reassign-
ed may not fly in the Operations Stage (or
Strategic Air Phase) of his reassignment.

[40.14] If a pilot is reassigned to a squadron that
contains planes of a different type than for which
he was trained, the pilot must be trained to fly
those new planes. It requires one full Game-Turn
(or three Operations Stages) to train a pilot. Thus a
pilot switching from a squadron of Hurricanes toa
squadron of Beaufighters may not fly for three
Operations Stages.

[40.15] The Pilot Rating is his capability, Pilot
Rating’s are either 1,2,3,4, or 6. (The 6 pilot)
represents the infamous Hans-Joachim Mar-
sielles, the German Desert Ace). The Pilot Ratings
are added to the plane’s TacAir Rating when that
plane is involved in any air-to-air combat. Thus an
ME Bf109F with Marseilles would have a TacAir
Rating of 14.

[40.16] As Pilots are assigned to squadrons, the
Player may have them fly any plane within that
squadron (remember Case 40.14). Any plane that
does not have a pilot assigned for a mission is con-
sidered to have a zero-rated pilot. There is an
unlimited supply of zero-rated pilots.

[40.17] If a fighter is shot down, there is a chance
that the pilot bailed out and can be recovered (see
45.65). If the pilot has been recovered, he may fly
again three Operations Stages after his Recovery.
He is returned to his squadron of assignment.

[40.18] There is an Optional Rule available for
Players who are attempting a full campaign game
and wish to create their own Aces. In such a case,
all pilots start the game with a zero Rating; there is
no need to bring in Reinforcement Pilots (ignore
any Reinforcement Pilots). However, for each five
‘kills’? a pilot gets, he increases his Rating by one.
A kill is any Enemy plane destroyed in air-to-air
combat. There is no limit how high a rating a pilot
may get. This should not be used for the shorter
Scenarios.

[40.2] COMBAT AIR PATROL (CAP)

[40.21] Any plane that has F (fighter) capability
(see the individual capabilities on the Aircraft
Characteristics Charts) may fly Combat Air
Patrol. Usually, fighters fly CAP. To denote that
a fighter is flying a CAP mission, write CAP and
the target hex in his mission column on the
Squadron Composition Sheet. He should also
denote whether this is offensive CAP (CAP-O) or
defensive CAP (CAP-D).

[40.22] Offensive CAP concerns flying to a hex
with the intention to shoot down Enemy planes.
Defensive CAP is undertaken by fighters wishing
to protect Friendly bombers or transport (flying as
escort/screen for them) or to protect an installa-
tion or facility. The distinctions can sometimes
become a bit blurred. .

[40.23] If three or more fighters are assigned to
offensive CAP in a given hex, the fighters possess
the equivalent of an air Zone of Control (i.e., they
are flying CAP over the hex they are in as well as
all six hexes surrounding that hex). They may thus
engage any Enemy planes that enter any one of
those seven hexes.

[40.24] Fighters (or any plane with F capability)
may fly CAP over any hex on the game-map that is
within range. However, no plane based in Africa
(on the game-map) may fly CAP of any type for or
against Axis Naval Convoys. Commonwealth
planes based on Malta may fly CAP

10

against Axis Naval Convoys only. Axis planes bas-
ed in Italy, Sicily, and Crete may fly CAP for Axis
convoys. Remember, a plane flying CAP may not
fly any other mission in that Stage.

[40.25] Example of CAP Missions

The Axis Player wishes to bomb Tobruk. He sends
two squadrons of Ju88’s to accomplish this. He
also sends to the same target hex (Tobruk) as
escort/screen two squadrons of ME Bf109B’s and
a squadron of Italian CR. 42’s. (They could have
come from any air facility within range.) The
Commonwealth Player has placed on defensive
CAP above Tobruk two squadrons of Hurricanes.
The Commonwealth Hurricanes and Axis MEB’s
and CR 42’s engage in air-to-air to see whether the
bombers can get through to complete their mis-
sion,

[40.26] Using the example in Case 40.25 we can
best illustrate the differences between offensive
and defensive CAP. If the Commonwealth planes
were flying defensive CAP they would, first off,
have no air Zone of Control (40.23). They would
also not automatically initiate air-to-air combat.
However, the Axis Squadrons would have to get
through the defensive CAP to perform their Mis-
sion. If the Hurricanes were flying offensive CAP,
they would have an air Zone of Control and they
could initiate combat against the Axis planes.
There is one additional — and important — dif-
ference. If fighters are flying offensive CAP, they
would have to attack any Enemy planes entering
their hex or any hex in their Zone of Control to
perform a mission in that hex; they could not
decide to not have combat. Exception: only
Enemy planes in one such hex must be attacked.
Defensive CAP planes may decline combat and
abort; offensive CAP planes may not.

[40.27] Fighters flying Offensive CAP may in-
tercept Enemy planes whose paths of flight enter
the hex they are in or their air ZOC. After all plane
counters have been placed to indicate their mission
target hex, but before revealing the numbers of
planes involved, a Player with fighters on offen-
sive CAP may ask to see a path of flight. If that
path coincides with his fighters, the Player with
the offensive CAP may choose to intercept the
Enemy mission right there. If so, air-to-air combat
will take place, and any surviving planes may con-
tinue their mission. Fighters on offensive CAP
may intercept only one mission per Operations
Stage.

[40.3] SCRAMBLE

There may be a time when a Player wishes to either
conserve fuel or, perhaps, retain some flexibility
with his fighter force. Scramble gives him the abili-
ty to do that. Planes assigned to scramble missions
are planes that stay on the ground until Enemy air-
craft come within range. They may then, under
certain circumstances, take-off and engage the
Enemy in air-to-air combat.

[40.31] Only planes with scramble capability may
be assigned a scramble mission. Planes assigned a
scramble mission are noted with an SC in the Mis-
sion column. No hex is assigned. Scramble mission
may be assigned only in the Land Support Air
Phases.

[40.32] Scramble occurs at the end of the Mission
Deployment Segment. After all planes have been
placed in their assigned mission hexes, any fighters
assigned to scramble may take off and engage
Enemy planes within scramble interception range.
The farther the range, the lesser the chance of suc-
cessful interception. A Player is not required to
scramble his planes even if they are assigned to a
scramble mission, but only planes assigned a
scramble mission may scramble.

[40.33] If a Player decides to scramble his fighters
so assigned he notes the hex which he wants them
to fly to and consults the Scramble Table (40.4),
determining the distance in hexes from the base of
the scrambling planes to the target hex. The path
of flight may not include a hex (other than the
target hex) containing other enemy fighters. The
Player then rolls one die and checks the table to see
if the scramble has succeeded. If it has, the planes
have made contact with the Enemy. They are con-
sidered to be on offensive CAP now and will at-
tack those enemy planes. If the Scramble is unsuc-
cessful, the planes have flown and they still must
refuel and refit. The choice of whether to Scram-
ble is up to the Player, but all decisions are made in
secret and revealed at the same time (at the end of
the Mission Deployment Segment).

[40.34] The Player wishing to scramble rolls for
each squadron separately, even if more than one
squadron is heading for the same target.
Squadrons may not be split between different
hexes for scramble purposes.

[40.4] SCRAMBLE TABLE
(see Charts and Tables)

[40.5] STRAFING

[40.51] Any plane with strafing capability (STR)
may strafe ground forces asnd other selected
targets. Mostly, fighters have strafing capabilities.
Dive-bombers have the capability to both Strafe
and Bomb a given target. Strafing is a mission, and
precludes the undertaking of any other mission
(with the exception of planes with STR/B
capability).

[40.52] Planes ona strafing mission are assigned a
target hex and a specific type of. target (Case
40.54). This would be listed as, say,
STR/C1234/dump. Strafing missions follow the
general course of all missions (39.0).

[40.53] Each individual plane may strafe only one
target in a hex, regardless of how many different
types or number of target of a single type there are
in that hex. Furthermore, strafing is resolved as a
single attack against a target; it is not a repeated
series of attacks against, say, each truck in a con-
voy. Note: a group of fighters assigned to strafe,
for example, ‘‘infantry-type units’? may attack
each of two battalions attached to a Brigade in a
target hex, so long as no one plane attacks more
than one battalion.

[40.54]
Strafed:
Infantry-type types of units
Trucks in Convoy

First Line Trucks (attached)
Supply Dumps

Grounded Aircraft

Tanks (only Hurricaine IT D’s)
Ports

Water Pipeline

The following types of targets may be

Fe re ao ss

[40.55] Strafing may not occuein major city hex-
es.

[40.6] STRAFING PROCEDURES

[40.61] Infantry Units. The strafing Player totals
his TacAir Points (Remember, do not add Pilot
Ratings in here; they apply only to Air-to-Air) and
consults the Strafing Table. The Player may strafe
as many infantry-type battalions or companies as
he wishes, but each plane may strafe only one
target (battalion) per mission. The Player then
rolls two dice and checks that diceroll under the
column for the number of TacAir points applied
to that battalion/company. The result is the
number of TOE Strength Points eliminated. If
such infantry toe Strength Points were actually be-
ing transported by trucks, such trucks are also
eliminated.

[40.62] Truck Convoys. This is treated in the same
fashion as Case 40.61, with losses being in Truck
Points. The Player being strafed determines which
trucks are eliminated, except that the losses must
be distributed as evenly as possible between the
various types of ‘‘cargo’’ (i.e., water, fuel,
Replacement Points, etc.) A strafing Player may
choose to go after first line attached trucks in the
same fashion. In such a case he would strafe the
parent unit, designating its attached trucks as the
target. Again, losses are distributed as evenly as
possible.

[40.63] Grounded Aircraft Treated similarly to
Case 40.61, with the target being planes on the
ground. The result on the Strafing Table however,
is not the number of planes but rather the number
of dice that the strafing Player must roll to see how
many planes are shot up. Thus, if he gets a 1 on the
Strafing Table, that Player then rolls one die; the
result of that dieroll is the number of planes straf-
ed and destroyed on the ground. Strafed Planes
may be Recovered (45.6).

[40.64] Supply Dumps: The mechanics are the
same as 40.62, the results are in the percentage of
all supplies in that dump destroyed. Thus a result
of Lequals 10%, 2 equals 20%, etc.

[40.65] Tanks: Strafing of enemy tanks by planes
was done only towards the end of the campaign,
and only by certain planes equipped with heavy-
enough cannon to pierce the tank’s armour. The
commonwealth Hurricane Mark JID’s were the
only planes so equipped (with Vickers 40mm can-
non). Strafing Tanks is accomplished much the
same as strafing planes, with the second die or
dice-roll producing the minimum number of Ar-
mour Protection Points that must be removed.
Anything with an armour protection rating may be
strafed. Any dummy tank counter strafed is
automatically removed from play.

[40.66] Ports. Strafing of ports is combined —
and is considered part of — a bombing raid on the
port. The Player adds his Strafing TacAir Points
then halves them, rounding down. He adds this to
the total bombload delivered on the target (the
port), and consults the Air Bombardment Table
(See 41.5)

GOOG

[40.67] Water Pipeline. Planes may strafe an
Enemy pipeline in order to render it useless. The
Player assigns the fighters a mission to strafe the
pipeline in a given hex, uses-the Strafing Table,
and rolls the dice. If he obtains any result of 2 or
more, the pipeline is destroyed. (This is not a ‘‘cost
efficient’? way of destroying a pipeline.)

[40.7] FIGHTER FLAK SUPPRESSION

[40.71] Fighters may use their TacAir Strength to
“*suppress’’ enemy anti-aircraft fire before it is us-
ed against Friendly planes.

[40.72] Fighter flack suppression does not pro-
duce any losses on either side. Rather the fighters
divert the flak fire and cover for the other planes.
However, any unsuppressed flak may fire at any
planes in the hex, including any fighters on a flak
suppression mission, Flak suppression is a mis-
sion.

[40.73] Fighter flak suppression is flown after air-
to-air is resolved but before any flak fire against
planes is undertaken.

[40.74] For every three fighters (individual
planes) that fly flak suppression, ove point of anti-
aircraft/flak fire is neutralized and may not be us-
ed that Operations Stage. Only light AA points

and ship AA points may be suppressed by fighters.
Heavy AA points may not be suppressed by
fighters.

[40.75] Fighters flying flak suppression expend
ammunition. The flak units neutralized also ex-
pend ammunition, as they are firing at the
fighters!

[40.76] Anti-aircraft units may only be destroyed
by bombing; see Case 41.3

[40.77] Planes may strafe ships to suppress flak, as
a regular flak suppression run. They may not
damage a ship by strafing. Ships may be damaged
by bombing and torpedoes (41.34). Remember
39.2 (Combined missions).

[40.8] STRAFING TABLE
(see Charts and Tables)

[40.9] NIGHT FIGHTERS

[40.91] Night fighters (so indicated on the Air-
craft Characteristics Chart) have all the
characteristics or regular fighters, with one excep-
tion: night fighters may scramble against a night
bombing mission, but when they do, the Player
rolling for scramble adds two to the die roll.

[40.92] The following night fighters have their
Maneuver Ratings lowered by 4 points when used
during the day: Blenheim IVF, Bf 110, and Ju88c.

[40.93] Planes on offensive CAP have no 20C at
night.

[40.94] Any CAP must be designated as being
flown at night, and such CAP/Escort has no ef-
fect on other missions.

[41.0] BOMBING MISSIONS

GENERAL RULE:

Any plane with a Bombload Capacity greater than
“zero”? may engage in a bombing mission. There are
many varieties of bombing missions, delineated by
the target type. In addition, certain planes have the
capability of engaging in night bombing missions,
which decrease the chances of getting attacked by
enemy CAP, while lessening the likelihood of
damage to a target. Certain planes can engage in
bombing missions while strafing. See 39.2. To
determine the effect of a bombing mission the
Player simply totals the Bombload Points (Tons)
delivered to the target and consults the Air Bom-
bardment CRT corresponding to the target type to
see what damage, if any, has resulted.

PROCEDURE:

During the Strategic Air Planning Stage of each
Game-Turn, the Players must assign any bombers
that they wish to use in that Game-Turn either to
land support missions, (not specifying what mis-
sions each plane or squadron will perform, but
just assigning them to general.land support mis-
sions for that Game-Turn), or to strategic convoy
reconnaissance and/or bombing missions (com-
monwealth player only). All such assignments
should be in writing. Any Malta bombing missions
are resolved immediately, in the Strategic Air
Planning Stage, and any bombers assigned to such
a mission may not be reassigned or used again until
the next Game-Turn. Any convoy missions are
resolved during the appropriate Segments of the
Convoy Resolution Phase of the Naval Convoy
Stage of each Game-Turm; any bombers assigned a
convoy mission may not be reassigned or used un-
til the following Game-Turn. During each Land
Support Air Phase (there are three in each Game-
Turn, one in each Operations Stage), both Players
may assign any eligible bombers assigned to ‘‘land

support missions’’ to specific missions and after
air-to-air combat and flak fire are resolved, the
missions themselves are resolved.

[41.1] RESTRICTIONS ON BOMBERS

Note: The term ‘‘bombers’’ generally refers to
planes that do not require pilot points.

[41.11] Bombers may not scramble, nor do
bombers have an air zone of control.

[41.12] Bombers may bomb only one target per
mission, and that target must be selected prior to
actual flight. (Sorry, you can’t drop your excess
bombs on Tobruk on the way back.)

[41.13] Bombers may abort before dropping their
bombs on their selected target. (See Case 41.3.)
However, whether the bombers abort or not, they
are considered to have dropped their bombs
somewhere, and thus expend their ammunition.
[41.14] In order to fly any mission (excepting
Transfer), a bomber must be refueled and refitted
(as well as armed).

[41.15] Players will note that bombers have
parenthesized TacAir Ratings. This means that
they may not be used except to fire back at Enemy
fighters that attack them. See the Section on Air-
to-Air combat. (45.0).

[41.16] Certain planes may undertake two mis-
sions simultaneously (see Case 39.2) dive bombers
may strafe and bomb the same target and fighters
with bombload capacities may both strafe and
bomb a target, if they have a ‘‘D’’ capability.
However, fighter-bombers may either bomb or
undertake a fighter mission; they do not have the
capacity to undertake both types of missions at
once. If a fighter-bomber is flying a bombing mis-
sion,it is considered to have a parenthesized
TacAir Rating (unless it jettisons bombload).

[41.17] Torpedoes may be used only against ships
and ports.

[41.2] LAND SUPPORT MISSION
PROCEDURE

[41.21] Land support missions are concerned with
bombing land installations, ports, personnel and
equipment in furtherance of operations on land.
Bombers assigned to land support missions for a
Game-Turn are assigned a specific mission in a
specific hex during the Mission Assignment Seg-
ment of a Land Support Air Phase. Thus, to assign
a squadron of Wellingtons to bomb the port
facilities at Tobruk, the Commonwealth Player
would write ‘‘B-PF/Tobruk’”’? (or any other
reasonable representation of that intent). A
counter representing all of the bombers of each
type assigned to a particular mission in a hex is
placed in that target hex (players will have to keep
track on paper of which bombers are represented
by each counter), unless they are intercepted en
route by Enemy CAP (see Case 40.27). (That is
why it is important for a Player to be aware of the
path of flight; if it passes through an enemy offen-
sive CAP Air ZOC, the Enemy fighters may attack
the bombers). Bombers may also be intercepted by
Enemy fighters assigned to scramble missions.

[41.22] Once a bomber has reached the target hex,
any air-to-air combat is resolved. Then any flak
fire is resolved. Then, after any losses are sub-
tracted, any remaining bombers may drop their
bombload, and the opposing Player determines
the effects of same. He does this by totaling the
number of bomb tons delivered against the par-
ticular target and referencing the proper portion of
the Air Bombardment and Secondary Barrage
Target Combat Results Table (41.5). He then rolls
two dice reading sequentially and applies any
results. Any surviving planes are then returned to
base (subject to Enemy CAP interception on the
way).

(41.3] LAND SUPPORT BOMBING
MISSIONS

All Land Support bombing missions except ‘‘min-
ing harbors’’ are resolved using the Air Bombard-
ment and Secondary Barrage Target Combat
Results Table (41.5). Mining harbor attempts are
resolved using the Mining Harbors by Plane Table
(41.9).

[41.31] Bombing Personnel (B-CU): The effect of
the anti-personnel bombing mission is to Pin a
number of units (battalion-equivalent) in the
target hex; see Case 41.9 for the explanation of Air
bombardment pins. The Player totals his bomb
total and consults the Air Bombardment CRT. He
rolls two dice, reads the results sequentially, and
cross-references that diceroll with the bombload
tonnage. The result is the number of battalion-
equivalent units Pinned. However,for this pur-
pose, each tank or gun (artillery/anti-tank) unit is
worth fwo units (AA/Flak units may be pinned in
the way). The choice of units to be Pinned is deter-
mined the same as an artillery barrage (See 12.2).
There is one exception to this section: Units in Ma-
jor Cities may not be bombed unless and until the
fortification level of the city is reduced to one (1)
or less.

[41.32] Bombing Truck Convoys (B-TC): The
results are given in the number of truck units
destroyed. The defending Player must divide the
losses as evenly as possible amongst type of trucks
and types of cargo. Trucks in major cities may not
be bombed by air until the city is reduced to zero
(‘0’). In addition, first line trucks (attached) may
be bombed in similar fashion, except that first line
trucks may be bombed only by planes with a ‘“‘D”’
capability. The method and results are the same,
however.

[41.33] Flak Destruction (B-FS): The results are in
terms of the number of TOE strength points with
an Anti-Air rating that are destroyed. Flak/AA
may also be pinned; see B-CU above. Flak destruc-
tion bombing takes place after flak fire, unlike
fighter flak suppression.

[41.34] Bombing Ships (B-CF): The result is the
number of Damage Points inflicted on the ships in
the hex (See 30.34). Bombing of the Com-
monwealth Fleet may not be undertaken at night.
Torpedoes may be used against ships (See 41.7).
See also 41.6. Axis coastal shipping may not be
bombed.

[41.35] Bombing Supply Dumps (B-SD): The
result is the percentage of each type of supply in
that dump that is destroyed. In addition, if there
are any unattached trucks in the hex, for every
10% of supplies destroyed, one Truck Point is
lost, choice of defender, dividing losses as evenly
as possible.

[41.36] Bombing Air Facilities (B-AF): The result
is the number of capacity levels. That that facility

is reduced. In addition, for every level destroyed,.

remove 10% of the planes on the ground (e.g., 2
levels, 20% planes), rounded down.

[41.37] Bombing Major Cities/Fortifications
(B-F/C): Any major city or hex with fortifications
may be bombed. If the target is a major city, the
mission may be flown at night (41 -4). Only one
level of fortification may be destroyed in any
Operations Stage. See also 22.35. Players may use
this mission to neutralize a temporary repair facility
that is not in a major city hex. If the Player obtains
a result that would reduce the fortification level by
one, the temporary facility is neturalized (and may
not be used) for one Operations Stage.

[41.38] Bombing Roads or Railroads (B-R or
B-RR): This is done in the same fashion as Bomb-
ing Cities, using the same table (but a different
row, according to the target). Roads may be
bombed at night if the Road is in a Coastal Hex.

11

12

The results are simply having the road or railroad
hex destroyed. (Railroads are very easy to repair;
whether they are worth the effort to destroy is the
player’s problem.)

[41.39] A. Mining Harbors (B-MH): Players use
the Harbor Mining Table, with the Player rolling
for each six bombers attempting to successfully lay
the mines. Rolling one die, if the Player succeeds,
place one mine counter in the port hex. The result
of a mine is the same as blocking harbors: Note:
The capacity column refers to the average
bombload for all six planes (Not this total of six).
B. Bombing Ports (B-P): The Purpose of this mis-
sion is to reduce the efficiency level (55.1) of the
port. Players .total, bombload and _ strafing
delivered to the hex and consult the Air Bombard-
ment Table. The number result is the loss in effi-
ciency rating for that port. (See Case 41.8 for bom-
bing Tripoli, etc.) Torpedoes may be used against
ports.

[41.4] NIGHT BOMBING MISSIONS

[41.41] Certain bombers may fly night missions.
Bombers capable of flying and bombing at night
have a capability code of ‘‘N’’ or ‘‘O”’ in their
capability column.

[41.42] In night bombing, accuracy is sacrificed
for the sake of safety. Only fighters with night
fighting capacity may escort bombers on night
missions.

[41.43] The Player must designate that a given
bombing mission is a night mission as such:
B-P(N). See the Air Mission Summary (Case 39.5)
for a list of which missions may be flown at night.

[41.44] All regular missions are resolved before
night missions, and the ‘‘defending’’ Player must
be informed if a given mission is a night mission
prior to ali resolving of missions, scramble, etc.

[41.45] Bombers flying night missions have their
bombload tonnage halved, rounded .down.
Torpedoes may not be used at night.

[41.46] Only Night Fighters may Scramble against
a Night Bombing Mission (see Case 40.9). Fighters
without NF capability may be given an offensive
CAP versus night raid mission, but have no ZOC,
and may only search for (and thus attack) Enemy
planes with a mission in the same hex (see Case
41.96). Night Fighters also go through the search
procedure in 41.96

[41.47] Fighters of CAP as well as Enemy night
fighters scrambling against night bombers must go
through a search procedure in order to find the
bombers. The Player rolls one die for each
Squadron; if he rolls a ‘1’ the fighters have found
the bombers (and any NF escort). Subtract ‘2’
from any search die roll involving squadrons of
night fighters (at night). If the die roll is not good,
search is unsuccessful and the fighters go home.
Any air-to-air combat proceeds normally.

[41.48] Flak/AA fire against night missions is ad-
justed one column to the left. If already in the
lowest column, the flak fire is considered ineffec-
tive.

[41.49] Night bombers do not get any benefits
from formation flying (45.36).

[41.5] AIR BOMBARDMENT TABLES
(see Charts and Tables)

[41.51] Air Bombardment & Secondary
Barrage Table

[41.52] Mining Harbors by Plane Table

[41.6] STRATEGIC PHASE BOMBING
MISSIONS: AXIS NAVAL
CONVOYS

[41.61] The Axis Player uses the convoy shipping
lanes to place his arriving convoys of supplies and

personnel (see 55.1). Each of these convoy ship-
ping lanes has distances in hexes from certain key
cities listed in the lane. This is the airflight distance
from that city (see 56.18).

[41.62] Commonwealth bombers assigned to the
Strategic Air Phase may fly bombing missions
against Axis naval convoys. This includes Africa-
based bombers as well as those based on Malta.
The only requirement is that the distance flown is
within that plane’s range. In tracing the range
from Africa-based air facilities, the planes must
fly to one of the cities listed in the lane and then fly
to the lane from that point. The two distances are
added to obtain the full distance.

[41.63] Axis fighters based in North Africa may
not fly CAP for Axis Naval Convoys. Axis
fighters based in the Mediteranean may fly CAP
for any Convoy Lane within range. Com-
monwealth fighters may fly CAP or Flak Suppres-
sion missions to any Convoy Lane within range.
The distances to the Convoy Lanes are given in the
Axis Naval Convoy Air Distance Chart (Case
56.18). Note that planes flying from North Africa
must be able to fly to one of the cities listed plus
the additional distance from that city to the Con-
voy Lane.

(41.64] The Commonwealth Player may only at-
tack Axis Convoys that he has located. Axis Con-
voys may only be located as a result of a Strategic
Convoy Reconnaissance Mission.

[41.65] The procedure for resolving attacks
against Axis Naval Convoys is as follows:

A. The Players divide their planes between those
assigned to Land Support and those assigned to
Strategic Missions. The Axis Player subdivides his
planes to those performing Air Raids on Malta
and those flying convoy protection.

B. The Commonwealth Player performs his naval
recon missions. Note that the planes may not be at-
tracted by air-to-air combat or anti-aircraft fire.

C. The Axi Player assigns his c6nvoy protection
aircraft CAP missions in specific Convoy Lanes.
The Commonwealth Player assigns his planes to a
CAP, flak suppression, or bombing mission in any
convoy lane in which a convoy has been located
(remember range restrictions). If no convoys have
been located, the planes never take off and
therefore do not have to undergo readying.

D. Air-to-air combat is resolved in the individual
convoy lanes.

E. Flak Suppression of the convoy is performed.

F. Anti-aircraft fire attacks from the convoy are
resolved.

G. Commonwealth bombing of the convoy is
resolved. The Axis Naval Convoy Missions are
now completed. All of the surviving planes will
return in base during the Strategic Air Recovery
Stage.

[41.66] Convoy bombing is resolved on the Air
Bombardment and Secondary Barrage Target
Results Table. The Commonwealth Player totals
his attacking bomb points, modifying for torpedos
if necessary (see Case 41.7), and rolls two dice. The
cross-indexed result is in tens of percent of the
cargo in that convoy lost.

[41.67] All losses are evenly divided percentage-
wise among the various cargo types, rounding
fractions up. All truck replacement points are con-
sidered to be one cargo type. All Italian tanks are
considered to be one cargo type. All German tanks
are considered to be one cargo type. All Italian
guns are considered to be one cargo type. All Ger-
man guns are considered to be one cargo type.

[41.68] Bombing of Axis Naval convoys never af-
fects the arrival of listed reinforcements.

(41.7) TORPEDOES

[41.71] Certain planes have the capability of car-
rying torpedoes, which are effective against ships
and port facilities (See Case 38.47 for arming
Bombers with Torpedoes.)

[41.72] When Axis planes are carrying torpedoes
against Enemy ships (this refers to Axis plane vs.
Commonwealth Fleet) the Axis Player uses the
torpedo line, not the normal bombload line.
Thus, if he has a mixture of planes (some carrying
bombs and some carrying torpedoes) he rolls
twice for that mission: once for the bomb-carrying
planes and once for the torpedo-carrying planes.

[41.73] When Commonwealth planes fly against
Axis convoys and at least 50% of the planes are
carrying torpedoes, in determining the level (Case
41.66), increase the bombing tonnage by 25%,
rounding upward. Thus, if 160 tons of bombs were
delivered to convoy route Nr. 3 via 30 planes, 17 of
which were armed with torpedoes, the tonnage
would be increased to 200 tons (effective).

[41.74] Torpedoes may be used against port
facilities, but as such count as normal bombs.

[41.75] Only planes with ‘‘T’’ capability can carry
torpedoes.

[41.8] BOMBING TRIPOLI

[41.81] Commonwealth bombers may bomb the
Tripoli/Tunisia boxes in order to reduce the port
capacity level and destroy any planes on the
ground. These are the only two types of missions
that may be flown against Tripoli, etc.

[41.82] Distances from game-map hexes to
Tripoli, etc., are printed on the Air Distance Chart
Add that distance to any actually flown on the
Game-Map to get the actual flight distance for the
raid.

[41.83] Bombing missions against Tripoli (the
port) or Bizerta (Tunis) are conducted as any other
similar mission, and the results are the same as any
such mission. (See Case 41.39)

[41.84] Bombing missions against grounded Axis
planes in Tripoli/Tunisia air facilities are con-
ducted as a Bombing Air Facilities Mission,
although the results against the facility are ignored
(see Case 41.36).

[41.85] The AA/Flak capacity for Tripoli, et al, is
constant, non-destructable, and printed in the
respective boxes. CAP coverage depends on the
Axis Player, but any CAP coverage is for all
targets in that box.

[41.86] Night missions may be flown against the
port of Tripoli.

[41.9] PINNED BY BOMBING

The effect of a Pinned result inflicted on a unit by
Air Bombardment is different from an artillery
barrage pinned. (This rules Section supercedes the
somewhat incorrect definition of Pinned given in
Case 3.1; in essence this case is an early errata.)
The Pinned by Bombing result depends on
whether the ‘‘pinned’’ unit belongs to the ‘‘A”’
Player or the ‘‘B’’ Player.

[41.91] Pinned Unit: ‘“‘A’’ Player

The following results occur from a Pin to a unit
belonging to the A Player for that OpStage:

1. The unit may voluntarily use only “% (rounded-
down) of its CPA; and

2. Such unit may not voluntarily enter an Enemy
ZOC; and

3. If such unit is in an enemy ZOC when Pinned
such unit may not leave that ZOC; and

4. Such unit may not voluntarily engage in com-
bat; i.e., it may not barrage or use Offensive Close
Assault or Anti-Armour.

As soon as the OpStage switches to the B Player
these results are no longer in effect.

[41.92] Pinned Unit: ‘‘B’’ Player

The following results occur from’a Pin to a unit
belonging to the B Player for that OpStage: such
unit may not move voluntarily or engage in com-
bat voluntarily during A OpStage. As soon as it is
B’s turn, the effects of Section 41.91 apply. The
unit becomes unpinned at the end of that OpStage.

[42.0] NON-COMBAT
MISSIONS

[42.1] TRANSFER MISSIONS

[42.11] A transfer mission is flying a plane from
one air facility to another.

[42.12] Transfer missions should be flown before
undertaking any other missions, so as not to forget
them in the heat of battle. Unless they run into
Enemy CAP (see 40.27) they should not run into
any problems.

[42.13] Planes flying transfer missions may dou-
ble their range. Transfer is a one-way flight;
transfer planes do not (cannot) return to their base
of origin.

[42.14] Planes flying transfer need not be refitted
to fly. However, a plane completing a transfer
mission must be refitted to fly another mission in
the next Stage or Turn. Transfer missions consume
fuel; whether planes conducting them are armed is
a question of choice.

[42.15] To assign a plane a transfer mission, write
‘‘Transfer to’’ and the hex of destination in the
mission box of the Squadron Control Sheet.
The plane is then placed in the new hex. Transfers
are flown only in Tactical Land Support Phases of
the Operations Stage.

[42.2] RECONNAISSANCE MISSIONS

[42.21] Reconnaissance (Recon) missions may be
flown by any plane with a Recon Capability
¢ ‘R? ).

[42.22] The object of a Recon mission is to find
out what units—in general terms—the Enemy has
in a given hex. Therefore, Recon missions are
flown over a specific hex with an Enemy unit in it.
Recon missions may be flown over any hex except
for major cities.

[42.23] The Player assigns a number of planes to
fly Recon to a specific hex. After all air-to-air and
flak, the Player totals the number of planes on
Recon in that hex and consults the Air Recon-
naissance Table (42.27), rolling one die. The result
is the number of units in hex the Player has learned
information about (42.24).

[42.24] For each battalion-sized unit the player
flying Recon can learn about, the opposing Player
must reveal the type of unit and its TOE strength
under the following conditions:

a. All tank units (including dummy tank
units, which are considered to have a TOE
Strength of ‘‘three’’ for this purpose)
revealed first, then infantry, then artillery.

b. The opposing player must give the TOE
strength, but may ‘‘lie’’ in either direction
to a deviation of ‘2’. Thus, for a unit witha
TOE of ‘3’ he could say it had ‘1’ or ‘5’ or
any number in between.

[42.25] No Recon mission may be flown in a hex
that is undergoing air bombardment,

[42.26] Land Recon missions are flown in the Tac-
tical Land Support Air Phase of the OpStage.
Planes flying Recon require refit. Recon missions

against Axis Naval convoys are flown during the
Strategic Air Phase.

[42.27] Air Reconnaissance of Land Units Table
(see Charts and Tables)

[42.3] TRANSPORT MISSIONS

[42.31] Certain planes with transport capability
may transport personnel or supplies by air. The
cargo capacity of each transport is listed on the
Aircraft Characteristics Chart in terms of TOE
Strength Points or tons of supplies.
[42.32] For a Transport to carry a TOE Strength
Point or supplies to a given hex, that ‘‘cargo’”’
must start the Operations Stage in the hex with the
transport. The transport may then fly one type
of transport mission:
a. The Transport flies to the target hex, lands
the cargo, and flies back; or
b. The transport flies to the target hex and
lands, remaining in that hex. In this case,
the transport may use its transfer range
(double its normal range).

[42.33] Transport missions must be flown to
Friendly air facilities, as the planes have to land.
Supplies and personnel may be airdropped under
special circumstances (See 42.4)

[42.34] Personnel transported by air may not
voluntarily move in the Operations Stage they are
transported in, having used their allotted CPA.
‘Personnel may be flown into a hex in an Enemy
Zone of Control; however, such units may not be
used for any attacks. That is, they may not volun-
tarily expend CP’s on combat. They may defend.
Personnel air-transported may never voluntarily
exceed their basic CPA, through reaction or
retreat before assault.

[42.35] Supplies air-transported may be used as
soon as they can be assigned to a dump or specific
units. They cannot be used directly ‘‘off the
plane.’’ They must be distributed in the Organiza-
tion Phase first.

[42.36] Transport missions may be flown only in
Operations Stages. Planes require refitting,even
when flying Transport Missions.

[42.37] Only infantry (without trucks), motorcy-
cle infantry/recce units, and airborne units may be
transported by air. Exception: dead camels may be
transported by air. Live camels may nor be
transported by air.

[42.4] AIRDROP MISSIONS
(PARATROOPS)

Although there were several airborne units in the
desert campaign (The Ramcke Brigade and the
Folgore Division), there were no major airborne
missions. The following rules are, in. essence,
hypothetical.

[42.41] Units capable of being airdropped are so
noted on the OA Sheets. Such units may be air-
dropped by transport planes during a tactical land
support Air Phase, under certain circumstances.

[42.42] An airborne mission is the same as a
transport mission (42.32a). The only difference is
that the units are dropped into the hex, not landed,
so an air facility is not needed for the transports.
However, they must start from a Friendly air
facility.

[42.43] Units may be airdropped into any clear,
gravel or desert hex. They may not be airdropped
into major cities and they may not be airdropped
into hexes occupied by Enemy units or hexes in an
Enemy Zone of Control. Units may be airdropped
into a Friendly occupied hex, within stacking
restrictions, as long as such hex is not in an
Enemy ZOC. In addition, the drop-zone hex may
not be more than two hexes from a recognizable
land feature (42.44).

[42.44] A recognizable land feature is a major ci-
ty, a road (unfinished, destroyed or not) or
railroad hex, a village, air facility, or oasis.

[42.45] Airdrops may not occur in sandstorms or
rainstorms. However, there is no drift; units
always drop in the target hex. There are no
casualties in an airdrop.

[42.46] Airdropped units require and use supplies
the same as any unit: they are not commandos.
Thus, only certain types of supplies may be air-
dropped: ammunition and stores may be airdrop-
ped (using the precepts of 42.42 and 42.43). Sup-
plies may be airdropped into a Friendly-occupied
hex even if it is in an Enemy Zone of Control. In
the latter case, there is no need to use the
recognizable land feature provision of the airdrop
rule. Airdropped supplies may be used as soon as
they arrive, unlike transported supplies (42.35).

[42.47] Airdropped combat units may move and
fight normally, with one exception: they may not
voluntarily exceed their CPA in the Operations
Stage in which they are dropped.

[42.48] There is no limit to the number of TOE
Strength Points that may be dropped (within the
limits of how many transport planes you can
muster). However, no unit may be airdropped
more than once a month (every 12 Operations
Stages).

[42.5] NAVAL CONVOY
RECONNAISSANCE MISSIONS

[42.51] The Commonwealth Player may fly recon-
naissance missions in Convoy Lanes to determine
the existence and size of the Axis Naval Convoy
assigned to that Lane.

[42.52] The Commonwealth Player must assign
each reconnoitering plane to a specific Convoy
Lane. A plane may only be assigned to a naval
recon mission if it posses Recon capability (R). A
plane may be assigned to any Lane within its
range. The distances to the convoy lanes are listed
in the Axis Naval Convoy Air Distance Chart
(Case 56.18). A plane flying a recon mission from
North Africa must possess a range.at least equal to
the distance from its air facility to one of the key
cities listed on the chart plus the distance from that
city to the Lane.

[42.53] Naval recon missions are resolved on the
Air Reconnaissance of Axis Naval Convoys Table.
If a successful reconnaissance of the convoy lane
has been made the Axis Player must indicate
whether or not a convoy is assigned to that lane
this game-turn; and if so, its approximate tonnage.

[42.54] Planes flying naval recon missions may
not be attacked in air-to-air combat or by anti-
aircraft fire.

[42.55] Naval recon missions are Strategic mis-
sions that are flown in the Naval Convoy Stage

[42.56] Naval convoy recon missions are assigned
in the Strategic Mission Assignment Phase of the
Strategic Air Planning Stage. An unlimited
number of planes may be assigned recon missions
in the same convoy lane. Naval recon missions are
resolved in the Naval Convoy Reconnaissance Seg-
ment of the Convoy Resolution Phase.

[43.0] AXIS ITALIAN-
AEGEAN AIR BASES

GENERAL RULE:

The Northern ‘‘shore’’ of the Mediterranean was
almost exclusively controlled by the Axis, especial-
ly after the fall of Greece and Crete in early 1941.
The Axis often used Italy, Sicily, Greece and Crete
to base its bombers, so that they could be used for
multi-purpose duty. The German Player is,

13

46

Counter Section Nr. 2

A. The following units are missing the head-
quarters stripe: 30 GaF (Bardia), 10 Brs, Libyan,
54 Ter (Derna), and 4/10 Army. Note that the
Stacking Points indicators of the 54 Ter and 4/10
Army are correct in not possessing parentheses.
B. The headquarters counter for the 10th Ber-
saglieri Regiment (10 Brs) should show a
mechanized infantry instead of a motorized infan-
try symbol.

C. The 5th and 23rd Desert Patrol (5 DPtl and 23
DPtl) units should show recon instead of motoriz-
ed infantry symbols.

D. The Sth, 6th, and 7th Artillery Regiments of
the Tobruk Garrison should show counter ab-
breviations and Parent Unit indicators of, respec-
tively, V/31 (Tobruk), VI/31 (Tobruk), and
VII/31 (Tobruk). The counter abbreviations on
the Tobruk Garrison’s OA Sheet are also incor-
rect.

Counter Section Nr. 3
A. The 138th Infantry Battalion of the 2nd

CCNN Division — 138 (238/2CN) — should not
show a headquarters stripe.

Counter Section Nr. 4

A. The ArKo 104 artillery counter is missing its
headquarters stripe.

B. The 368 Heavy Flak Battalion should show a
Heavy AA instead of an AA symbol.

C. The 200th Regiment of the 15th Panzer Divi-
sion should show a motorized infantry instead of a
mechanized infantry symbol.

D. The 5th Light Panzer Division’s Stacking
Point indicator is missing its closing parenthesis.

Counter Section Nr. 5

A. The 2nd New Zealand Cavalry (2NZ Cav)
should show an Armored Recon instead of a Tank
symbol.

Counter Section Nr. 6
No errata.

Counter Section Nr. 7

A. The 65th Anti-tank Regiment should show an
Anti-tank instead of an Artillery symbol.

B. The 14 (14/70) Anti-tank Company should
show an Anti-tank instead of an Artillery symbol.

C. The 61st Heavy AA counter is missing its ‘1°’
Stacking Point indicator.

Counter Section Nr. 8

A. The 13th DCL Armored Car Regiment is at-
tached and not assigned to the 18th Indian Brigade
and should show a dash (—) instead of ‘‘18 In X”’
as its Parent Formation indicator.

B. The 9th Australian Division’s headquarters
counter should not show an Engineering Capabili-
ty (BE) indicator.

Counter Section Nr, 9 (back and front)

A. The Minefield, POW, Guard, and POW
Camp counters should be labelled as ‘“‘Com-
monwealth’’ and not ‘‘Allies.”’

