Infantry-class: All Infantry-Type, Engineers,
Headquarters possessing a defensive Close Assault
Rating but not possessing an Armor Protection
Rating, SGSU, and Recce-Type that do not
possess an Armor Protection Rating.
Armor-class: All Tank-Type, Dummy Tank Formations, Tank Recovery Squadrons, headquarters
possessing an Armor Protection Rating, RecceType possessing an Armor Protection Rating, and
those Artillery and Anti-tank-Type units possessing an Armor Protection Rating (SPA and Tank
Destroyers).

Gun-class: All Artillery-Type, Anti-aircraft-Type
and Anti-tank-Type units comprised of any TOE
Strength Points not possessing an Armor Protection Rating, includingHQs and infantry with Barrage capability.

Truck-class: All Trucks.

Note: Any Artillery or Anti-tank unit that is comprised of weapons (TOE Strength Points) with an
Armor Protection Rating and of weapons without
one are considered ¢wo units for target purposes.

[#3_23]
==== Combat units consist of all Infantry-Type,
Tank-Type Recce-Type, Artillery-Type, Antitank-Type, and Anti-aircraft-Type units. For certain determinations, such as Zone of Control,
Reconnaissance, Barrage and Bombardment, certain non-combat units may be considered combat
units.

[#3_3]
=== HEADQUARTERS UNITS

HQ’s serve two functions: They act as command
coordination for the individual units under them,
and they also represent, when on the game-map,
all of the units attached to that HQ.

[#3_31]
==== HQ units represent all combat units,
Trucks (and their Supplies), etc. attached to that
counter. If any combat units are attached, the HQ
counter itself is considered a combat unit, and
fights with the combined strengths of all units in it.

[#3_32]
==== An HQ (and for that matter, all Parent
Units) have a CPA equal to the CPA of the
‘slowest’ unit attached to the HQ.

[#3_33]
==== The Stacking Points printed on the HQ are
those of a full complement of units. Thus a divisional HQ representing an entire division occupies
§ Stacking Points of space. The rules on unit
Equivalents (see Case 9.2) discuss what happens if
the division operates at less than full strength. If
an HQ has no combat units attached it occupies
zero Stacking Points and may use its parenthesized
Ratings. It is no longer considered to be a combat
unit and may not voluntarily attack.

[#3_34]
==== Certain HQ units, mostly with the Italian
Army, have artillery assigned to regimental HQ’s
(guns directly under command of the HQ). These
HQ’s may use their combat strengths, and losses
for the guns are taken as regular losses. However,
when all gun TOE Strength Points are eliminated,
the HQ is not destroyed: it reverts to the status of a
non-combat HQ.

[#3_35]
==== Armored Division and Armored Brigade
HQ units usually have a ‘‘platoon’’ of tanks
assigned, as Players will note by the ratings of each
such HQ. These tanks may not be used in combat
unless the HQ has no combat units attached.
Tanks assigned to HQ’s may not be transferred to
combat units, regardless of the situation. If such
an HQ loses its tanks, they should be replaced by
the first available Tank Replacement Points. HQ’s
with tanks attached are not subject to Breakdown.

[#3_36]
==== An HQ unit that has no combat values,
either with or without parentheses, is captured instantly if it is in a hex without any combat units
and an Enemy combat unit places the HQ in its
Zone of Control. There is no Capability Point ex
penditure required for such a capture, and the HQ
is treated as one Prisoner Point.

[#3_4]
=== COMBAT UNITS

CNA has a great variety of combat units — more
than 25 different types, not including aircraft.
Although the structure of the game is operational,
there has been an attempt to inject a ‘‘tactical’’
flavor into the game by differentiating between the
functions of the various units. However, players
should keep in mind that this is an operational
game, and that many purely tactical functions
have been abstracted or ignored. Below is a brief
resume of the various types of units, noting any exceptions. Some of the completely familiar units
have been omitted.

Motorized Infantry: These are infantry units that
are usually transported in Trucks. (The British
often called their units Lorried infantry.) Motorized Infantry units must actually have Trucks in
order to use their Motorized CPA (i.e., that of the
Truck). Otherwise they are regular ‘‘foot’’ Infantry. Units that were usually motorized are so indicated on the units’ Characteristics Charts.

Mechanized Infantry: Primarily, these units were
not only motorized but also usually supplied
with some Armored Cars, half-tracks, armored
Personnel carriers, etc. Unless there is a terrible
and total emergency, Mechanized Infantry should
remain motorized at all times.

Motorcycle Infantry/Reconnaissance: These are
mostly Italian Bersaglierei mitraglieri (motorcycle) units (plus two German battalions of Kradschutzen). The equipment is the popular two-man
cycle, plus a few jeeps, Armored Cars, etc.
Weaponry was pretty good, with a high percentage
of machineguns; thus their relatively high
firepower. Cycles may not enter hexes prohibited
to Light Trucks. Moreover, even though motorcycles are vehicles, they do not use Fuel nor do
they suffer Breakdown.

Heavy Weapons Units: There are several of these
units, such as the German Schwerste-Infanteriegeschutz units. Equipment varied, but often included machineguns, mortars, some light artillery
and anti-tank guns, perhaps a light AA battery. It
varies from unit to unit.

Garrison Infantry: These units are virtually the
sole property of the Italians — and they are usually
welcome to them. Most Italian Garrison Infantry
came from the GaF Settore di Coperture Regiments, comprised of over-age Italians living in
Libya. Their training was minimal, their spirits
low, their performance poor. However, units
labeled as garrison units (with a G on the counter
— and this includes all types of garrison units)
stack free in the city or town which they were
originally assigned to garrison. E.g., the 30th GaF
infantry units have zero Stacking Poins when in
Bardia. There is one Commonwealth unit which is
considered a Garrison: The Matruh Garrison. The
OA Sheet gives specific instructions on this unit.
unit.

Airborne Infantry: These are treated as normal infantry, unless they are capable of being paradropped, which capability is listed on the Arrival
Sheet for that unit. See Case 40.4.

Armored Recce and Armored Car units: Recce
units usually comprise light armored cars (Bren
Carriers, Autoblindas, etc.), while the Armored
Car units have some tanks (Stuarts, PzII’s, etc.)
and heavier cars. The sole difference is the fact
that Armored Car units are virtually light Tank
Battalions. (The British considered Recce as infantry, but Armored Car as Armored units.) Recce
and AC units have remarkable mobility and are

best used to probe and freeze (Pin) small enemy
formations.

Artillery: The Artillery units in the game comprise
a wide variety of weapons, from 65mm Infantry
guns up to 21cm German howitzers and British
5.5” howitzers. Some of the minor guns have been
ignored or combined into one ‘‘piece’’ with similar
ratings. Italian mortar companies have been melded into the regimental HQ’s and ad hoc artillery
units. Ratings for guns and howitzers were based
on Range and Penetration effect, as well as rate of
fire and type of shell. Unless stated otherwise on
the Arrival Sheet, all Artillery has its own intrinsic
(built-in) transport, transport which may never be
stripped (unless you wish to abandon the guns).
Artillery units use Fuel (when moving) as well as
Water. However, they are not subject to Breakdown. Players will also note that certain Artillery
units have more than one type of gun (e.g., the
221st Artillery Regt. of the German 90th Light
Division). All guns belong to the same unit and
they are treated as one unit.

Self-Propelled Artillery: These are guns mounted
on Tank or quasi-tank chassis. They fire like guns
and have Vulnerability Ratings, but they also may
be destroyed by Anti-Tank Fire. Their advantage
is in increased mobility and Assault value. SP Artillery consumes Fuel and Water and _ suffers
Breakdown.

Coastal Defense Guns: These artillery units always
have a CPA of 10 for combat purposes only,
unless they have printed CPAs of greater than
ten. They may not be moved unless Trucks are attached and assigned to that purpose. Guns with a
‘0’ (not ‘0+’) CPA are emplaced and may never
be moved. Emplaced Guns do not possess a Vulnerability Rating and may be destroyed only by
Barrage, Capture or Air Bombardment. Cost
Defense Artillery that is motorized is subject to
Breakdown.

Anti-Tank Units: These have ‘‘guns’’ with the
ability to pierce armor, thus destroying tanks and
other armored units. There are certain TOE
Strength Points, not specifically anti-tank, that
also have this ability: British 25-pdrs., the famous
German 88mm Flak units, Italian 75mm and
90mm AA/Flak units, etc. British Heavy Antiaircraft units, with 3.7” guns, theoretically had the
capability to fire as anti-tank weapons. However,
British doctrine was such that they were never
(well, hardly ever) used in this role. (‘‘If they were
meant to be used as anti-tank guns they would
have been called anti-tank guns.’’ Apocryphal,
but true.) Unless self-propelled, anti-tank units
are notarmored.

Anti-Aircraft/Flak Units: Of all the units in the
game, AA/Flak unis suffered the most liberties in
terms of design. The myriad and voluminous
AA/Flak batteries spread over Africa were often
combined into larger regiments and battalions,
making the historical battalions/regiments seem
larger than they perhaps were. AA/Flak units
comprise a fairly wide section of weapons: British
40mm, as well as the ill-used 3.7”s, German 20 and
88mm’s, plus Italian 20mm’s, 75’s and 90mm’s.
Many of these guns had other tactical uses, apart
from shooting down planes. Thus AA/Flak units
are given a variety of ratings, most of them parenthesized. Some units, especially German 88’s, can
be used in many roles. These decisions were not
based on innate capabilities, but rather on tactical
doctrine and actual usage.

Units with Parenthesized Strengths: Certain combat units — and certain non-combat units — have
parenthesized Combat Ratings. These ratings may
be used only if such a unit is in a hex not occupied
by Friendly combat units with appropriate nonparenthesized ratings is attacked by Enemy units.

