organization structure. (See Section on Unit
Organization, 19.0). The method of filling out the
boxes in this section is identical to that of Maneu-
ver and Division Assets below. Any unit going i
this section is attached to the counter the Log
Sheet represents, although it may be assigned to
some other unit.

G. Notes: Anything appropriate, ranging from
which units are out of ammo or supplies to the
amount of Water required by the elements com-
prising the counter every Operations Stage.

C, Divisional Assets/Support Units: Applies to
those units attached directly to the division and
not under a Brigade-Eq HQ (unless ina Common-

wealth Armored Division). The boxes are filled in.

the same manner as Maneuver section.

B. Maneuver Elements: These boxes -are the
heart of the Log Sheet. They are where the infor-
mation for the main combat forces comprising the
counter is recorded. Basically, each box is used to
record a single counter (i.e., attached unit). The
information to be recorded consists of the unit’s
type, CPA, Fuel and Breakdown Rates (if any),
current TOE Strength, name, and its ratings for
barrage, anti-armor, vulnerability, armor-
protection, offensive close assault, defensive close
assault and anti-aircraft. Information concerning
whether the unit is simply attached to the unit
without being assigned, and/or is assigned to
another parent unit or is a garrison unit, etc., is
best recorded in the notes section. A tank or gun
unit that is comprised of more than one weapons
system (i.¢e., type of TOE Strength Point) will re-
quire more than one box to represent the unit (as
many boxes as there are weapons systems). A unit
assigned but not at present attached to the unit
whose Log Sheet you are handling still occupies
space within the formation’s organization. This
space may not be filled by attaching other units in
its place. For ease of play, fill in ‘“‘detached”’ in the
box of sucha unit.

The recorded information may be written in or ad-
jacent to the unit’s box in any manner the Player
desires as long as he and the other Player’s have no
problems in reading it.

Brigade TOE Log Sheet: This is used for counters
representing Brigade-Eq and smaller units. The
formation’s organization limits can be found by
using the Formation Organization Chart and the
Formation Attachment Chart. It is useful to put
these limits in the Notes Section. As this is a multi-
purpose form, the boxes in the Maneuver
Elements and Augmentation sections are un-
adorned and can be divided in any manner
necessary.

Infantry Division TOE Log Sheet: The boxes in
the Maneuver Elements section are organized in a
very restricted fashion. Some of the boxes in the
Divisional Assets and all of the boxes in the
Augmentation sections are unadorned to permit
recording of multiple weapons systems occurring
in the same unit. The division’s organiza-
tion and augmentation limits can be determined
from the charts indicated above.

Allied and Italian Armored and German Division
TOE Log Sheets This is free form with the boxes
unstructured so as to permit the expected varia-
tions in both multiple weapons systems in a single
unit and variations in division organization.

[4.53] Rear Area Commander’s Group

This group belongs to the Player in charge of con-
struction, demolition, mopping up operations,
and other rear area jobs having nothing to do with
supplies. (The Player will usually have a Trucks
and Major End Items Control Sheet as he wil! nor-
mally be assigned some trucks in order to handle
routine operations without bothering the Logistics
Commander).

Vehicle Repair Control Sheet: Permits the Player
to handle all broken down vehicle, destroyed tanks
and abandoned vehicle counters.

Naval Convoy Log Sheet: While designed primari-
ly for Axis strategic Naval convoys it is also used
for either Player’s tactical shipping. The sheet per-

‘mits keeping track of naval transport, its location,

destination, transit, what is being transported, etc.

POW Control Sheet: Designed to handle all
POW’s, their Capability Points expended, loca-
tion and inhabitation of the POW Camps, and the
TOE Strength and infantry-type of their Guards.

[4.54] Air Marshal’s Group

The Player in charge of all the airplanes uses the
following two forms and usually the Supply Dump
Control Sheet to simplify required aircraft supply
expenditures the aircraft require.

Squadron Ground Support Unit Sheet: The sheet
contains space for controlling six squadrons of
planes, the maximum number that can be berthed
at an airfield. Each squadron section permits
counter location, basic composition, aircraft
characteristics recording, and the state and Mis-
sion of each plane in the squadron.

Air Mission Log Sheet: Permits the Player to co-
ordinate all air missions assigned in that Opera-
tions Stage/Game-Turn, by hex and by squadron
supplying the planes.

[4.55] Logistics Commander’s Group

The Player in overall charge of supplies.

Trucks and Major End Items Control Sheet: Used
for the Player’s Truck Convoys. Organized to
identify, within each counter, the number of each
type of truck in the convoy, what supplies are be-
ing transported and by what trucks; which trucks
are ‘empty’, any replacement points, repaired
vehicles, returning Guards, etc., being returned or
exchanged between units.

Supply Dumps Control Sheet: Enables the Player
to keep track of the supplies and location of each
of his supply dumps. It is strongly suggested that
the Logistics Commander determine which of his
dumps will be actively or constantly used and
those which are not and separate them into dif-
ferent sheets, as the actual supply dump counter
ID number has no effect.

General Supply Net Sheet: The .Logistics Com-
mander’s chief headaches are how much supply
does he have, how much is coming in, and how
much of that supply is likely to be used in the near
future. This sheet is set up to help prevent him
from running out of a supply by accident, as it
were, either locally or strategically.

Supply Requisition Form; The Logistics Com-
mander is in charge of disbursing these to the
various Field Commanders and Air Marshals.
This may seem humorous at this point, but the
form proved quite helpful in maintaining good
supply organization, and it sure beats yelling at the
top of your voice for 100 gallons of fuel.

[4.6] INVENTORY OF GAME PARTS

One Game-Map (five sections)

Nine sheets of 200 die-cut counters (1800 total)
One Land Game Rules Booklet

One Air & Logistics Game Rules Booklet

Two Charts & Tables Booklets

One 5/8” and one 3/8” plastic die

One Game Box assembly

One 22’? x 34’’ log sheet

One Historical Article Booklet

If any parts are missing or damaged, write, fill out
the enclosed Complaint Card and return to SPI for
replacement. Note: The process used to manufac-
ture counters sometimes results in images being
slightly off-center or in colors spilling along the
edges of differently colored counters. Counters
displaying such minor imperfections cannot be
replaced by SPI. Only in cases where the counters
are not legible can SPI supply replacement parts.

In the Land Game, the Players deal with the fine
distinctions of terrain and local and variable
weather encountered by the actual combatants.
The interlocking and detailed movement and com-
bat systems permit the Players to recreate real time
and space ‘‘continuous’’? movement and combat.
The organization and equipment rules create
voluminous options, allowing the Players to
deploy and maneuver company level and larger
forces with equal ease while at the same time dif-
ferentiating between raw, poorly motivated, or
badly armed units and veteran, well motivated,
well equipped forces as well as changes in the same
unit from one state to the other.

[5.0] THE SEQUENCE
OF PLAY (Land Game)

[5.1] THE GAME-TURN

In CNA each Game-Turn covers a period of ap-
proximately one week. However, to better handle
combat operations, each Game-Turn is divided in-
to three Operations Stages. Each Operation Stage
is the equivalent of 2-3 days of activities and,
within each such Stage, each Player performs a se-
quence of events covering all aspects of the game.
Thus the Players complete their operations within
one Operations Stage, proceed to the second, and
then the third, thus finishing one full Game-Turn.
Certain operations are performed only at the
beginning of the actual Game-Turn. Most of the
game operations — movement and land combat —
are performed within the Operations Stage. The
basic unit of time within the game is thus the
Operations Stage.

[5.2] LAND GAME GAME-TURN
SEQUENCE OUTLINE

This Sequence of Play applies when playing the
Land Game without the Air and Logistics Games.

I. INITIATIVE DETERMINATION STAGE

The Players determine who will have the Initiative
for the coming Game-Turn (Section 7.0). The
Player going first within an Operations Stage
(below) is known as Player ‘‘A’’; the other as
Player ‘‘B.”’

II. NAVAL CONVOY STAGE
A. Naval Convoy Schedule Phase

The Axis Player plans what specific cargoes the
ships will carry and their routes. See Section 32.0
or Section 56.0. The Axis Player plans for the ar-
rival of future Replacements from the Axis
Replacement Points Pool. Likewise, the Com-
monwealth Player consults the Commonwealth
Production Table and determines how many
Replacement Points he will receive two turns henc
and plans for their arrival. .

12

B. Tactical Shipping Phase

Both Players plan the transport of cargo between
African ports. Note: The Axis Coastal Ships are
represented in the game by counters. Allied coastal
shipping is not represented by counters and is
limited only by the port capacities.

III. FIRST OPERATIONS STAGE
A. Initiative Declaration Phase

The Player who gained the Initiative in Stage I now
states whether he will be Player ‘‘A’’ or Player
“*B’’ for this particular Operations Stage.

B. Weather Determination Phase
The Player with Initiative rolls for Weather (29.0).
C. Organization Phase

The following segments are undertaken in any

order desired.

1. Reorganization Segment: Attachment and/or

assignment of Reinforcements, Replacements or

any other non-assigned units including Trucks

may be undertaken. Detachment of units may also

be accomplished.

2. Construction Segment:
a. Construction Completion Step: Any work
scheduled for completion is finished, removing
and adding any markers necessary. Units that
have finished construction are free to move.
b. Construction Initiation/Continuation Step:
any units beginning or continuing work on pro-
jects are noted. They may not voluntarily move
in the remainder of the Operations Stage (Ex-
ception: Reaction).

3. Training Segment:
a. Training Completion Step: Units and
Replacement Points completing a level of Train-
ing are noted and the effects in Morale applied.
b. Any units beginning or continuing Training
are noted. They may not move voluntarily in the
remainder of the Operations Stage (Exception:
Reaction). .

D. Naval Convoy Arrival Phase

All Reinforcements, Replacement Points and Am-
mo Points scheduled for Arrival (and actually ar-
riving) appear in their designated Ports of Arrival
or Entrance hexes.

E. Commonwealth Fleet Phase

1. Fleet Assignment Segment: The Com-
monwealth Player assigns his ships to any sea or
coastal hexes.

2. Fleet Repair Segment: Any Repair work on
ships is undertaken at this time.

F. Reserve Designation Phase

Player ‘‘A’’ designates which of his units he is
placing in Reserve Status, indicating such with a
Reserve I marker (see Section 18.0).

G. The Movement and Combat Phase

The following four Segments comprise the Move-
ment and Combat Phase. Player ‘‘A’’ may if heso
wishes, repeat Segments | through 4 as many times
as he desires within the restrictions of the Con-
tinual Movement Rules (8.2). Each repetition must
include all four segments.
1. Movement Segment: All units, except unat-
tached Trucks and Tank Recovery Squadrons, not
in Reserve and capable of being moved may be
moved. Non-Phasing (Player ‘‘B’’) units may
React if permitted and Player ‘‘B’’ wishes to do so.
2. Breakdown Determination Segment: All
vehicles and motorized units of both sides check
for Breakdown (2.10). Broken down vehicles are
indicated by a marker.
3. Combat Segment: (Combat is resolved as
follows see Sections 11.0 through 15.0).

a. Position Determination Step: Both Players

determine the ‘‘position’’? of all Gun-and

Armor-class units.

b. Barrage Step: Both Players secretly plot and
then execute any Barrages.
c. Retreat Before Assault Step: Player ‘‘B”’
may Retreat Before Assault any of his units per-
mitted to doso. ;
d. Force Assignment Step: Both Players secret-
ly assign TOE Strength Points to Anti-Armor or
Close Assault. Player ‘‘A’’ determines which
Assaults will be Probes (although he need not
reveal this decision) and which TOE Strength
Points will be withheld from Assault.
e. Anti-Armor Step: Both Players simul-
taneously resolve any Anti-Armor Fire, remov-
ing all casualties. Placement of Destroyed
Tanks markers are made if necessary.
f. Close Assault Step: Close Assaults are resolv-
ed in any order that Player ‘‘A’’ desires. He an-
nounces which Assaults are actually Probes
after each is resolved.

4. Reserve Release Segment: Player ‘‘A’’ may

release any of his Reserves that he wishes.

H. Truck Convoy Movement Phase

Player ‘‘A’’ may move his Second and Third Line
Trucks (unattached) and any POW’s and Guards.

J. Commonwealth Rail Movement Phase

If Player ‘‘A’’ is the Commonwealth Player he
may utilize Rail Movement (8.7) for units and/or
Supplies.

K. Repair Phase

1. Towing Segment: Player ‘‘A”’ may tow Broken
down and Recovered vehicles.

2. Maintenance Segment: Player ‘‘A’’ may at-
tempt to Repair Broken down or destroyed
vehicles which were not towed in this Phase.

L. Patrol Phase

If the Phasing Player has not engaged in Assault,
he may use Patrols for reconnaissance purposes.

At this point Player ‘‘B’’ undertakes Phases F
through L, replacing any references to ‘‘A”’ with
“Band oopee with ay. | an

IV. SECOND OPERATIONS STAGE

Both Players repeat all facets of the First Opera-
tions Stage.

V. THIRD OPERATIONS STAGE

Both Players repeat ail facets of the First Opera-
tions Stage.

VI. END OF GAME-TURN

You have now completed one Game-Turn, a full
week of the real campaign. Take a breather, havea
beer and a sandwich, contact your loved ones to let
them know you’re still alive, and return for
another Game-Turn.

[6.0] THE CAPABILITY
POINT SYSTEM

GENERAL RULE:

CNA uses a Capability Point system to control all
aspects of a given land unit’s abilities. A unit’s
Capability Point Allowance (CPA) is a numerical
representation of a unit’s ability to undertake any
and all functions: movement (including retreats
and advances), combat, loading, transporting,
construction, etc. There is not a function in the
game that will not cost a unit some of its CPA
(with some minor exceptions). CPA thus regulates
each and every aspect of play. Under certain cir-
cumstances units may exceed their CPA. To do so
will affect a unit’s Cohesion, earning it Dis-
organization Points (which may affect Morale).
Yet, the ability to exceed its CPA allows a unit to
stretch itself to the limit, to perform feats it might

not ordinarily perform — at a price. Players
should thus keep close track of each unit’s CP’s
expended and its Cohesion Level on the Sheets
provided.

CASES:

[6.1] HOW THE CPA SYSTEM WORKS

[6.11] Each unit has a Capability Point Allowance
(CPA). The CPA for each unit is given on the OA
Sheets. Certain Gun units have a CPA of ‘‘0;”
these units are considered to have a CPA of 10 for
all purposes other than movement.

[6.12] Every function that a unit would need to
perform costs that unit some portion of its CPA.
The costs of each such function are listed on the
Capability Point Cost Table, Section 6.3. Except
where noted, everything a unit does costs CP’s.

[6.13] The CPA for a given unit refers to the
number of Capability Poins that unit may use ina
given Operations Stage without earning Dis-
organization Points (See 6.2). Thus, a Tank Bat-
talion with a CPA of ‘25’ could use 25 CP’s in an
Operations Stage without garnering any Dis-
organization Points.

[6.14] The allotment of CP’s for an Operations
Stage refers to both Players’ portions of that
Operations Stage. Thus, if the Axis Player goes
‘ast’? in a given Operations Stage any CP’s used
by his units in Retreating, Reacting, etc., during
the Commonwealth portion of that Operations
Stage are counted against those units’ CPA’s for
that Operations Stage. As the Operations Stage
progresses, Players should keep track of CP’s ex-
pended by units on either the TOE Sheet for that
unit or on the Field Commander Control Sheet.
Example: At the beginning of the first Operations
Stage of the September III, 1940 Game-Turn
(Game-Turn 1), the First Royal Northumberland
Fusiliers (a non-motorized, Machinegun battalion
at this point) has a CPA of eight. To start the
game, the Italians move and attack the Ist RNF.
They have no artillery and do not barrage. The
Allied Player decides to Retreat Before Assault
three hexes at a cost of six CP’s. The Ist RNF did
not use any CP’s to defend, and the Italians did
not expend any CP’s to Close Assault, as the
Allied unit retreated before any could be expend-
ed. Thus when the Commonwealth Player begins
his portion of that Operations Stage the Ist RNF
battalion will have only two CP’s remaining
before it exceeds its CPA and earns Disorganiza-
tion Points.

[6.15] The CPA of a ‘‘Parent Formation”’ (e.g.,
division, brigade, etc.) is that of the /owest CPA of
the units comprising that parent formation,
regardless of the CPA of any higher-CPA units. If
the British 7th Armored Division was to move as
an entity (consult the OA Sheet for the 7th Arm.
Div) it would move with a CPA of ‘10’, or that of
its lowest-CPA unit — the Ist KRRC (without
trucks).

[6.16] A unit does not have to use all of its CP’s in
a single Operations Stage. However, CP’s not used
in one Operations Stage do not carry over into the
next Operations Stage (unlike Cohesion Levels,
which do). They are not transferrable from one unit
to another (although an infantry unit may assume
the CPA ofa truck if it is motorized; see 6.17).

[6.17] Certain units may become ‘‘motorized’’
during the game: i.e., Infantry units (those units
witha basic CPA of 10 or less) may use Truck units
to transport them. Infantry units being thus trans-
ported by Truck units assume the CPA of the
Truck unit carrying them. Thus, if the Ist RNF
were to be motorized by Medium Trucks it would
now have a CPA of ‘20’, instead of ‘8’. (See also
Section 8.9). Anti-air units with listed CPAs of

:
|

0+ may be motorized by assigning one Medium or
one Heavy Truck Point per TOE Strength Point of
Artillery.

[6.2] COHESION

Cohesion represents a unit’s state of exhaustion
and disintegration (Disorganization) or elation
(Reorganization). A unit with a Cohesion Level of
“‘Q’? is its normal self. A unit in Disorganization,
with a minus Cohesion Level, has probably been
exerting itself beyond the normal call of duty,
while a unit with a plus Cohesion Level
(Reorganization) has been winning battles. The
Cohesion Level of a unit affects its Morale Level at
the instant of combat, which in turn will affect its
performance in that battle. (See Section 17.0).

[6.21] Whenever a unit exceeds its CPA within a
given Operations Stage it earns Disorganization
Points (DP’s). For each Capability Point that a
unit uses over its CPA it earns one Disorganization
Point. Thus, a unit witha CPA of ‘15° that uses 18
CP’s in an Operations Stage earns three DP’s. [A
unit may also earn DP’s as a result of combat.] Ifa
unit (Parent Formation as well as all units in that
formation) suffers losses of 30% or greater in any
one Close Assault it earns three DP’s. (See also
15.29b).

[6.22] DP’s are used to decrease the Cohesion
Level of a unit. Thus a unit with a Cohesion Level
of —1 that earns three DP’s now has a Cohesion
Level of — 4. DP’s accumulate from Segment to
Segment; they may be negated only by certain ac-
tions on the part of the unit (See 6.23). Further-
more, DP’s are credited immediately — not at the
end of an Operations Stage. Example: the Ist
RNF, with a CPA of ‘8’ and a Cohesion Level of
— 2 has expended five CP’s in a Movement Seg-
ment. It then assaults an Italian unit, expending
the five CP’s necessary to do so. The Ist RNF has
thus exceeded its CPA by two, earning 2 DP’s and
reducing its Cohesion Level by that two to —4.
The decrease in the Cohesion Level takes place
before the Close Assault is resolved and the Ist
RNF uses its new Cohesion Level of —4 in com-
puting any changes to Morale.

[6.23] A unit’s Cohesion Level may be increased
by earning Reorganization Points (RP’s). Under
no circumstances, however, may a units Cohesion
Level ever go higher than plus ten (+10). RP’s
earned are added to a unit’s Cohesion Level in
such a way as to make it ‘‘better’’. Thus a unit with
a Cohesion Level of — 3 that earns five RP’s has a
new Cohesion Level of +2. RP’s, like DP’s, are
applied immediately.

[6.24] RP’s are earned under the following cir-

: cumstances:

1. For each Operations Stage in which a unit uses
absolutely no CP’s (except for a unit undergoing
Training or conducting Training; see 18.3) that
unit earns five RP’s. However, no unit may ever
increase his Cohesion Level above’ ‘0’ by this
method. Thus, a unit with a Cohesion Level of —1
that uses no CP’s for an entire Stage would have a
Cohesion Level of ‘0’ at the end of that Stage (not
+4).

2. For each Close Assault in which a unit par-
ticipates where the defending upit vacates its hex
completely as a direct result of that Close Assault
(not Reaction or Retreat Before Assault) that unit
(victorious) earns fhree RP’s.

[6.25] A unit with a positive Cohesion Level (e.g.,
+3) may have its Basic Morale increased in a given
Close Assault, while a unit with a negative Cohe-
sion Level (e.g., —12) may have its Morale
lowered for a given combat (see Case 17.2).

[6.26] A unit with a Cohesion Level of ~26 (or
worse) may not move, attack, or defend. If an
enemy combat unit moves adjacent to it it Sur-

renders, regardless of the size of the enemy unit.
Such ‘‘disorganized’’ units may, however, refuel,
and they do consume Stores and Water. (Note,
that a unit may get a level of worse than ~— 26 if it
performs a sing/e action, such as an attack that
would jump it past the — 26 level.)

[6.27] If a Player has more than one unit (or in-
dividual combat counter) in a given Close Assault,
and those individual units have different Cohesion
Levels, then the Cohesion Level of the largest (in
terms of type: division, brigade, etc.) unit prevails.
(Use the Stacking Points to determine the
“Jargest’’ unit.) When determining any adjust-
ments to Morale through Cohesion Level, if there
is more than one ‘“‘largest unit’’, then the Cohesion
Levels of all “largest units’? are added together
and divided by the number of contributing
counters.

Example: Three brigades are assaulting an enemy
unit. The Cohesion Level of the Brigades is — 4,
—1 and +3, respectively. The Player adds the
three together (—4 + (—)1 + 3 = —2, and then
divides by three (—2 + 3 = —1, rounding to the
nearest whole number). The Cohesion Level for
that battle is thus — 1.

[6.28] If a Parent Formation has many units
within it that have different Cohesion Levels the
largest unit within the Parent Formation prevails,
as per Case 6.27.

Example: An extreme example — and one not like-
ly to occur — is one where a Parent Formation has
three Brigades, all with different Cohesion Levels;
in addition, one of the Brigades contains three bat-
talions, each with a different Cohesion Level. The
Cohesion Level for the latter Brigade would have
to be determined before averaging the three
Brigades to get the final Cohesion Level. Again,
this will rarely — if ever — occur.
[6.29] Notwithstanding anything said in 6.27 or
6.28, each unit’s Cohesion Level is kept track of
individually. As most units ina Parent Formation
will have the same level at all times, this will not
prove to be too big a problem.
[6.3] CAPABILITY POINT

COST SUMMARY

(see Charts and Tables)

[7.0] INITIATIVE
GENERAL RULE:

Initiative is an abstract, numerical rating represen-

tative of the strategic leadership capabilities of a

given army. It is used, in the game, to determine
who has the choice to act first within a given
Operations Stage. The fact that a Player has the
ability to choose when he will move is a great ad-
vantage, and the army with better initiative will
often find that it has the upper hand operationally
— if not materially.

[7.1] THE MECHANICS OF INITIATIVE

[7.11] The Player who has ‘“‘Initiative’’ for a
Game-Turn may choose whether he wishes to
move first or last in a given Operations Stage.

[7.12] The Player who will have the Initiative is
determined at the beginning of each Game-Turn
(not Operation Stage). The Player who gains the
Initiative keepts that Initiative for all three Opera-
tions Stages in that Game-Turn. Thus, the Player
with Initiative may choose to move first in the first
Operations Stage, last in the second stage and then
first in the third Stage (which would give him, in
effect, two “‘turns”’ ina row).

{7.13} Each side possesses an Initiative Rating

(7.2), which is dependent on the date of the Game-
Turn.

[7.14] To determine which Player has the In-
itiative for a given Game-Turn, each Player, in the
Initiative Determinate Stage, rolls one die and
adds his Initiative Rating to the result of the
thrown die. The Player with the highest total (ties
roll again) gains the Initiative. Thus, in October of
1940, if the Italian Player, with an Initiative
Rating of ‘1’, were to roll a ‘4’? and the Common-
wealth Player, with an Initiative Rating of ‘3’,
were to rolla ‘1’, the Italian Player would gain the
Initiative by virtue of having a total of five (1 + 4
= 5) to the Commonwealth total of ‘47 (3 + 1 =
4). The Italian Player would now be able to
choose, in his Initiative Declaration Phase,
whether he wants to move first or last in the Opera-
tions Stage for each of three Operations Stages in
the Game-Turn.

(7.15] The Player with Initiative for the first
Game-Turn of a given scenario is usually predeter-
mined, Check the individual scenarios for who has
the Initiative for the first Game-Turn.

[7.16] For purposes of the Sequence of Play, the
Player who moves first in an Operations Stage is
called ‘‘Player A’’; the Player who moves last in
an Operations Stage is called ‘‘Player B’’.

[7.2] INITIATIVE RATINGS CHART

This chart lists the Axis and CW initiative ratings
for all units at any given point in the game. (See
Separate Sheets)

[8.0] LAND MOVEMENT

GENERAL RULE:

In CNA, Land Movementis a function of the CPA
of a unit. Most Movement occurs during the
Movement Segment of the Movement/Combat
Phase. During the Movement Segment, the Phas-
ing Player (i.e., the Player who is in the process of
moving) may move as many or as few of his units
as he wishes. They may be moved in any direction
or combination of directions, limited only by their
CPA’s, enemy Zones of Control, Terrain restric-
tions and, in the case of motorized units, Fuel con-
sumption and Breakdown. Under certain con-
ditions (Reaction and Retreat Before Assault) the
non-Phasing Player may move his units.

PROCEDURE:

Units are moved one at a time, or in stacks, tracing
a path of contiguous hexes through the hex grid.
As a unit enters each hex it must expend a portion
of its CPA for entering that hex or crossing a par-
ticular hexside. All terrain costs are listed on the
Terrain Effects Chart (8.37). In addition to Move-
ment costs, Players must pay attention to Break-
down costs for vehicles moving through certain
hexes (see Section 21.0).

[8.1]. HOW TO MOVE
UNITS

[8.11] Units may be moved voluntarily only dur-
ing the Movement Segments or Retreat Before
Assault Step. Voluntary movement may never
take place out of the Sequence of Play. Players
should note that while Player A may be the Phas-
ing Player, Player B has several opportunities to
move his units during A’s Segment. All move-
ment, of any type, expends CP’s. Furthermore, if
the unit moving is a vehicle (armored units, self-
propelled artillery and trucks), the Player must
check for possible Breakdown (see Section 21.0).
Units may move freely through Friendly units,
with the exception of movement along roads and
tracks (see Case 8.34).

[8.12] Under certain conditions — usually combat
— a unit may be forced to Retreat. This is con-
sidered involuntary movement, in that the retreat-

13

14

ing Player does not move by his own choice but
rather as a direct result of combat. However, in-
voluntary movement also requires expenditure of
CP’s and checks for Breakdown.

[8.13] A unit may never enter a hex containing an
enemy unit (see, however, Case 27.4). Further-
more, movement from hex to hex must be con-

secutive; units may not skip hexes. (There are, of

course, different rules for aircraft.)

[8.14] If a unit moves into an enemy Zone of Con-
trol (10.0) it must stop immediately. It may move
no further in that Movement Segment and will
probably have to attack, in some form, the enemy
unit exerting that Zone of Control.

[8.15] A unit that begins a Movement Segment in
an enemy Zone of Control may move out of that
hex and continue movement under the following
conditions:

1. It may not move directly into an enemy Zone of
Control (however, see Case 10.24); and

2. It must pay a cost of two CP’s if the units are in
““Contact’’ (see Case 8.62); or

3. It must pay a cost of four CP’s if the units are
“Engaged’’ (see Case 8.63).

[8.16] Units may continue to move and fight as
long as they wish, with certain restrictions (see
Case 8.2). They may exceed their CPA in an
Operations Stage; however this will affect their
Cohesion Level.

[8.17] Non-motorized units — those units with
CPA’s of fen or less — may never voluntarily ex-
pend CP’s greater than 50% of their base CPA
during their portion of the Operations Stage (An
‘8’ could not go higher than ‘12’, a ‘10’ no higher
than ‘15’). Remember, Reaction and Retreat
Before Assault are not voluntary movement in
your own portion of an Operations Stage; they oc-
cur in the other player’s portion of the Operations
Stage. Furthermore, no unit with a Cohesion Level
of — 26 or worse may move.

[8.18] Second and Third Line Trucks (i.e., Truck
Convoys; see Section 8.9) have their own Move-
ment Phase: The Truck Convoy Movement Phase.
Such trucks may not move (voluntarily) in the nor-
mal movement segments. Only trucks directly at-
tached to, and part of, a combat unit or HQ may
move in the normal Movement Segments. Trucks
become attached and/or detached in the Organiza-
tion Segment of the Sequence of Play.

[8.19] No Commonwealth Land unit may be mov-
ed west of Marble Arch (A2109) at any time, for
any reason. (This solves a great number of play-
ing problems, and also reflects Commonwealth
operations considerations and strategy.)

{8.2] THE CONCEPT OF
CONTINUAL MOVEMENT

CNA uses a concept called ‘‘Continual
Movement’’. Under this concept a given unit does
not possess a set Movement Allowance which it
may never exceed, as in most wargames. Rather a
unit has a Capability Point Allowance. If a Phas-
ing Player wishes to push his units past their CPA
he may do so, knowing that it will affect that unit’s
Cohesion. In Continual Movement a unit may
continue to move after it has engaged in combat,
moving and fighting as long as the Phasing Player
wishes, within certain limits.

Continual Movement generates certain problems
in terms of Time-and-Space Relationships. The
rules attempt to account for the fact that time
passes while one unit is moving; that other units
are not standing still.

[8.21] Units are not limited as to the number of
times they may move and engage in combat during
a given Operations Stage except for Cases 6.26,

8.17, and 8.23. Thus, a unit may move adjacent to
an Enemy unit, engage it in combat, move away
(or stay), engage the same or another unit in com-
bat, etc., as the Phasing Player wishes. The unit
simply expends CP’s for a//actions it performs.

[8.22] Within a given Movement/Combat Phase
there may be several segments of Movement and
Combat. These are, to a certain extent, regi-
mented. In essence, the Phasing Player moves his
units. He then, after all such movement is com-
pleted, resolves any combat. He may then again
move any of his units (within the exceptions men-
tioned in 8.21); after all movement at that time is
completed any combat necessitated or desired is
resolved. This cycle is repeated until the Phasing
Player no longer wishes to move his units or have
combat. Remember, no combat occurs until a@//
movement has ceased within each Sequence of
Movement and Combat.

[8.23] Only those Phasing units that have finished
a Movement Segment within two hexes of an
enemy unit are free to move again. A Phasing unit
that finishes its movement more than two hexes
from an enemy combat unit may not continue to
move during that Movement Phase, regardless of

- the number of CP’s remaining, unless that is a unit

that has been placed in Reserve Status (18.0).
Players should note that Reserve Status is an ex-
ception to 8.22.

[8.24] A Phasing unit that begins any Move-
ment/Combat Phase in the Zone of Control of an
Enemy unit must expend fwo CP’s to break ‘‘Con-
tact’? — or four CP’s, if such position was brought
about by an ‘‘Engaged”’ result on the Assault CRT
— if it wishes to move. (Note, that in the case of an
Engaged result, the presence of an enemy ZOC
does not matter.)

[8.25] A Friendly unit may attack a given Enemy
unit more than once in a given Operations Stage,
with neither unit ever moving! However, each
combat occurs after all movement of other units
cease. If there is no movement by any units, com-
bat may still proceed for as long as the Phasing
Player wishes, providing he has the necessary Am-
munition and wishes to expend the required
number of CP’s.

[8.3] TERRAIN EFFECTS
ON MOVEMENT

{8.31] Units expend a varying number of CP’s to
enter hexes or cross certain hexsides, depending
upon the type of unit and/or what type of hex or
hexside is involved. The costs range from % CP
for roads (for motorized units) to + 8 for a vehicle
to move down an escarpment via a track or an
infantry-type unit to cross The Nile without a
“‘bridge’’. See the Terrain Effects Chart for all ef-
fects (8.9).

[8.32] Certain types of hexes and/or hexsides are
prohibited to certain types of units. E.g., certain
vehicles may never enter a Salt Marsh hex, unless it
is onaroad or track.

{8.33] Roads and Tracks may be used to facilitate
movement through terrain obstacles and speed
movement over the entire game-map. For a unit to
gain any benefit from movement on a Road or
Track if must move from one Road/Track hex
directly into an adjacent, connecting Road/Track
hex through a Road/Track hexside. Units which
are moving along Roads or Tracks ignore, for
movement purposes, any other terrain in the hex
or hexside, with the exception of vehicles crossing
Escarpments (see 8.42).

[8.34] A unit comprised (at least in part) of
vehicles (i.e., tanks, trucks, artillery, etc.) that is
moving along a Road or Track is limited in its
ability to move through other Friendly units on the
Road or Track in that hex; see Case 9.33. Such

moving units may always pass around Friendly
units that are on a Road or Track by moving
through the terrain in the hex, i.e., bypassing the
units on the road by moving off the road and
around them, going back on the road in the next
hex.

[8.35] Most of the terrain in CNA is self-
explanatory, especially when the Terrain Effects
Chart is consulted. However, at this point it would
help to be able to visualize the difference between
slopes, ridges and escarpments. An idealized side-
view of each of the above types of terrain is provid-
ed below so that players can see what is being
abstracted:

>

Slope Ridge Escarpment
Slopes and Escarpments always have an ‘‘up’’ side
and a ‘‘down’’ side (see the Terrain Key). The
splash contours of the respective terrain symbols
are always on the ‘‘down’’ side of the slope or
escarpment. Thus, when a unit is crossing a slope
or escarpment hexside it is moving either up the
slope/escarpment or down the slope/escarpment.

Ridges have no ‘‘direction’’; crossing a Ridge hex-
side has the same effect regardless of which direc-
tion the unit is coming from. In essence, ridges are
two-sided slopes.

[8.36] Certain types of terrain restrict combat or
give the attacker or defender a combat benefit.
These benefits are discussed throughout the sec-
tions on Combat, but they are all summarized on
the Terrain Effects Chart.

[8.37] Terrain Effects Chart
(see Charts and Tables)

[8.4] SPECIAL TERRAIN EFFECTS
ON MOVEMENT

For those gamers used to Panzerarmee Afrika and
Afrika Korps, the game-map of CNA will come as
something of a shock and a revelation: there is ter-
rain in all those empty spaces. And much of this
terrain is unlike that of anywhere else on earth, br-
inging with it special problems for both designer
and player. The most important of these are
discussed below.

(8.41] Wadis. Wadis are, in essence, dried-out
river beds. There are several major areas of wadis
in North Africa. While the series of wadis that
‘‘guards’? the Libyan Sand Desert, south of
Cyrenaica, is the largest group, perhaps the most
important series of wadis are those extending like

_ fingers from the Jebel Akhdar (game-map B).

Along with the other difficult terrain in the area,
the wadis of the Jebel Akhdar greatly hinder rapid
movement.

Allunits expend CP’s to cross a Wadi hexside. (All
wadis in CNA have been placed along hexsides,
with the exception of the Wadi Natrun, just west
of the Nile Delta, which is treated, for game-
purposes, as if it were Salt Marsh.) In addition,
there is a Breakdown Factor of eight for vehicles
crossing a wadi hexside. Roads negate wadis for
movement purposes, while Tracks halve the cost to
cross. Vehicles crossing a Wadi on a Road use the
Road Breakdown Rate (2 BP), while vehicles
crossing on Tracks garner four BP’s, not eight.

Players should note that in an Operations Stage in
which the Weather is Rainstorm wadis in affected
map sections are impassable at ail points, except
where they are traversed by roads. The cost to
cross a rain-swollen wadi by Road is +2 CP’s;

there is no additional Breakdown cost (i.e., it is
still 4% BP).

[8.42] Escarpments. The escarpments, which
were such an integral part of the Desert Campaign,
are at the edge of the Libyan Plateau, which rises
from the edge of the strip of land that borders the
Mediterranean. In some places the rise is gradual;
in others it is sharp and severe, virtually uncross-
able by vehicles. Movement costs for crossing
escarpment hexsides are listed in the Terrain Ef-
fects Chart (8.37). However, other factors must be
noted. No vehicle may ever move ‘“‘up”’ an escarp-
ment (i.€., cross an escarpment hexside by moving
from the down side to the up side). If a Track
crosses an escarpment hexside, vehicles may use
the Track to move down the escarpment, but never
up. The cost for moving down via Track would be
+8 CP’s and six Breakdown Points.

[8.43] Slopes and Ridges. These were discussed in
8.35. All units may cross these hexsides at a variety
of Movement and Breakdown costs; see 8.37.

[8.44] Salt Marsh. Salt marshes are depressions
consisting of very fine and treacherous salty sand
—a veritable quicksand grave for vehicles, and no
fun for infantry either. Vehicles, except for Light
Trucks, Recce-type units, and motorcycle infantry
may enter or leave a Salt Marsh hex only ona Road
or Track. A prohibited vehicle that enters a Salt
Marsh hex without using the Track, whatever the
reason, is Abandoned (see 5.33). Because most
vehicles are prohibited from entering Salt Marshes
in a normal manner, zo motorized unit or AFV
(tank, armored car, etc.) may ever engage in
Assault with units defending in a Salt Marsh hex.
The one camel unit in the game (the Italian
Meharisti Camel Cavalry) travels as infantry in
non-track Salt Marsh hexes, as these hexes could
not support /oaded camels.

[8.45] Desert. Desert hexes, which comprise the
area known as the Libyan Sand Desert, contain
soft, shifting sand (as opposed to ‘‘Clear’’ hexes,
which have a clay-like substance more supportive
of vehicular traffic.) Desert hexes are forbidden to
Light Trucks, Motorcycle infantry, and motor-
cycle Recce units whose weight was not sufficient
enough to provide the traction necessary for mov-
ing vehicles through the soft surface. Such units
may not enter any Desert hexes, whether traversed
by Tracks or not. See 8.37 for all terrain costs.

[8.46] Tracks. The major communication net-
work of the North African Plateau is the series of
tracks that criss-cross the entire area. The tracks
are useful not in that they are easier to walk or ride
in (in some places they are no easier than the ter-
rain in the hex); what they do provide is direction
~— i.e., which way to go. Sense of direction in the
“‘desert’’ is almost non-existent; the tracks provide
that. Movement along tracks is at 1 CP per hex and
halves most hexside crossing CP costs. In addi-
tion, units using a track pay only one-half the nor-
mal Breakdown cost for that hex.

[8.47] Railroads and Roads. The use of these two
are discussed quite succinctly in the body of the
rules. However, Players should note that, on the
game-map, there are large sections of railroad and
some’ roads that are not constructed as of
September 1940 and must be constructed to exist.
Specific later scenarios will list the hexes that have
been constructed by that time. Unconstructed rail-
road hexes are ignored for all purposes. Uncon-
structed roads are treated as tracks.

[8.48] Oases do not affect movement, But it might
be worthwhile to point out here that Oases are con-
sidered to be nondiminishing Supply Dumps for
Water and Stores.

[8.49] All of these terrain types also affect com-
bat. However, such effects are discussed in the
various combat Sections, especially 15.3.

{8.5] REACTION

Reaction is the capability of a unit to ‘‘get out of
the way’’ of an attacking unit or units before the
enemy can launch an attack against the reacting
unit. Reaction is movement conducted by the non-
Phasing Player — as defender — in the opposing
Player’s Movement/Combat Phase, A unit’s abili-
ty to react is limited to certain specific situations.
Reaction expends CP’s.

[8.51] Reaction is the process of movement by a
Friendly, non-Phasing unit in response to an
Enemy Combat unit moving adjacent to that
Friendly, non-Phasing combat unit. Reaction
follows all the standard rules of movement, except
as stated below.

[8.52] A given unit may React as many times as
the Player wishes during an Operations Stage. A
unit ‘‘reacting’’ expends CP’s; however, it does
not expend CP’s for Breaking Contact/Engaged,
as defined in 8.24.

{8.53] All units may react, with the following ex-
ceptions:

a. Non-motorized units, Squadron Ground Sup-
port Units, and Truck Convoys not stacked with
Friendly combat units may never React.

b. No unit may React if the Enemy unit moving
adjacent to it has a CPA six or more points greater
than that of the non-Phasing unit and the owner of
the Phasing unit announces there will be a Close
Assault by his unit against the non-Phasing unit.
Thus, a motorized infantry battalion may react
when a tank battalion with a CPA of 25 moves ad-
jacent to it, because a motorized unit will have a
minimum CPA of 20 (from its trucks). However,
if the same motorized battalion were to be moved
adjacent to by an enemy Recce battalion, with a
CPA of 45, the motorized battalion could not
React. (It could still Retreat Before Assault,
however; see Section 13.0). Furthermore, each
units is treated individually; thus, Second Line
Light Trucks stacked with (but not attached to)
that motorized battalion could retreat (as they
have an extended CPA of 40, only 5 less than 45).
c. If a non-phasing unit is already in an enemy
Zone of Control (usually as a result of (b) above) it
may not React. In this way, faster units ‘‘pin’’
slower units.

d. A unit that is in combat or Engaged may not
react.

[8.54] Notwithstanding anything said in 8.53, no
battalion size unit may ever pin a division and no
company-size unit may ever pin a brigade or larger
unit. The terms used here refer to size, and not
specifically the unit type/designation. Size of unit
may be determined by Stacking Points as well as the
TOE. Thus a division may be but a skeleton force,
as may other units. The problem should rarely oc-
cur, as most units are fairly easy to determine as to
size and type, but if there is a question use your
Common Sense (or flip a coin if that commodity is
in short supply). See Section 9.2.

[8.55] Reacting units may never enter an Enemy
Zone of Control during their Reaction Movement.
Otherwise, Reaction is undertaken like normal
movement, with no limit as to how far a unit may
React/Move.

[8.56] A unit may react, within the restrictions
listed in 8.53 above, even if it is attached to a
parent formation. In this case, the CP is expended
for detachment and the unit may then react. A
brigade HQ may not be detached from a division
unless all of the units at present attached to the
brigade HQ are also detached. In addition, the

detachment of units may not be performed such
that the parent unit is vow “‘pinned”’ as a result of
its becoming a shell and having Case 8.54 now ap-
ply. Attached trucks may be freely divided
amongst the parent unit and its detaching and
reacting units. Note that this rule does nor permit a
parent unit to detach low CPA units in order for
the parent unit to now be able to react.

[8.6] BREAKING OFF

([8.61] Breaking Off is a function of Movement
that occurs when a unit beings a Friendly Move-
ment Segment in Contact or Engaged with an
Enemy Combat unit. Contact and Engaged
markers are provided to indicate such status.
(There has been some discussion of this in 8.24; see
also Case 15.81).

[8.62] Units are in Conract if they are inan Enemy
Zone of Control at the beginning of a Movement
Segment.

[8.63] Units are Engaged directly as a result of
Close Assault; Engaged is a combat result. Engag-
ed units do not necessarily have to be in Enemy
Zones of Control. ,

[8.64] A unit in Contact or Engaged with an
Enemy combat unit at the beginning of a Move-
ment Segment or a Retreat Before Assault (not
Reaction) may not move until it has paid a cost in
CP’s to break off such contact. In addition, First
Line Trucks wishing to detach from an Engaged or
Contacted parent unit must expend the necessary
CP’s to so detach. Second/Third Line Trucks
wishing to attach as First Line Trucks to Engaged
or Contacted units do not expend additional CP’s
to so attach,

[8.65] A unit in Contact must expend two CP’s to
Break Off before moving.

[8.66] A unit that is Engaged must expend four
CP’s to Break Off before moving.

[8.67] When all of the Friendly units that were in
Contact or Engaged with an Enemy combat unit
Break Off that Enemy unit is no longer Engaged or
in Contact.

[8.68] Contact and Engaged markers affect only
the combat units in the hex at the time of their
placement. Units moving into a hex with a Contact
or Engaged marker are not affected by that
marker.

[8.7] RAIL MOVEMENT
OF LAND UNITS

[8.71] There are two rail lines in the game. The
Alexandria-Mersa Matruh line is an active rail-
road. It may be extended by construction (see Case
24.6) and may be used only by the Commonwealth
Player, regardless of the strategic situation. The
Soluch-Benghazi-Barce rail line is on the game-
map solely for historical purposes; it may not be
used for anything and has no effect whatsoever on
terrain or movement. (It was used by the Italians in
1940, but not in any way as to affect the game.)

[8.72] The Commonwealth Player may use Rail
Movement once per Operations Stage, in the
Commonwealth Rail Movement Phase. He may
transport units and/or supplies, and he may move
one ‘‘stack’’ of these any distance along the rail
line in each direction. Thus, a unit may be moved
west from Alexandria to any rail hex along a
finished rail line as far as (eventually) Tobruk, and
supplies in Tobruk may be moved eas/to Matruh.

[8.73] To use Rail Movement a unit must start the
Operations Stage ona rail hex, it may not have ex-
pended any CP’s for any other reason during that
Operations Stage, and it may not be in an Enemy
ZOC. The unit is then moved to the desired point
along the line where it stops. It may not enter an
Enemy ZOC or Enemy-occupied hex at any time
while using Rail Movement.

16

16

{8.74] The Commonwealth Player may use his
railroad lines once in each direction. I.e., he may
carry one unit (or stack) as far as he wishes in an
easterly direction and another stack (or perhaps
supplies) as far as he wishes in a westerly direction.

[8.75] The maximum number of Stacking Points
that may be carried by Rail Movement is two.
(Thus large Brigades must be broken down for
Rail Movement). For supply maximums, see Sec-
tion 49,3.

[8.76] Rail hexes that have been destroyed by
bombing, etc. may not be entered by Rail Move-
ment until they are repaired. Likewise, the rail
hexes not yet in existence (8.47) can not be used un-
til they have been constructed (see Case 24.6).

-[8.77] Units may be picked up and dropped off

anywhere along a rail line, as long as the Stacking
and directional restrictions are always observed
and no unit using rail has expended CP’s in that
Operational Stage.

[8.78] No Rail hex west of any rail hex occupied
by an Axis combat unit may be used by the Allied
Player for Railroad Movement.

[8.8] TRIPOLI AND TUNISIA

[8.81] The area around Tripoli and Tunisia, both
important entry ports for Axis troops and sup-
plies, are represented by a series of four large
boxes and a number of smaller boxes on the
western edge of game-map section A. Each large
box represents a specific region, centered around
the geographical name in the box: Tripolitania,
Tripoli, Gabes, and Tunis. References to these
boxes as a group are indicated by the term
“Tripoli/Tunisia boxes.’’ The smaller boxes are
used to represent the location of units in transit
between the Tripoli/Tunisia boxes.

[8.82] Only Axis units and Commonwealth
airplanes may enter the Tripoli/Tunisia region.
No Commonwealth land or sea unit may ever enter
any of the boxes.

{8.83] Air movement to/from the area is perform-
ed as per the standard Air Rules, with the distances
listed in the Air Distance Chart. Land movement
among the Tripoli/Tunisia boxes and the boxes
and the North Africa proper of the game map has
been abstracted. The distance traveled is measured
by the number of Operation Stages in which a land
unit must expend its Capability Point Allowance
in movement. Motorized units are required to con-
sume fuel but are not required to check for
breakdown during movement in, to and from this
off-map region. A unit must expend exactly its
Capability Point Allowance in each Operations
Stage of movement in, to, or from the off-map
region.

[8.84] The number of Operation Stages of move-
ment required by a specific unit in order to traverse
the distance between the various Tripoli/Tunisia
boxes and the map depends upon it Capability
Point Allowance. The movement ‘‘rates’’ for units
in the off-map region is listed in the Off-Map Land
Unit Movement Distance Chart (8.89). A unit be-
ing moved from one Tripoli/Tunisia box (or hex A
2802, see Case 8.85) to another that can traverse
the distance in a single Operations Stage is simply
placed in its new location and the required fuel is
expended. If the unit cannot cover the distance ina
single Operations Stage of movement, it is moved
one In Transit box for each Operations State it is
moved until the required number of Operations
Stages of movement have been completed. Note
that a unit In Transit is not required to be moved
each Operation Stage and that such a unit may
reverse its direction, returning to its original star-
ting location.

[8.85] For a unit to be moved off the game map
towards Tripolitania it must sfart that Operations

Stage in hex A2802. A unit entering the game-map

from the off-map region 1s simply placed in the ©

Road hex closest to the Tripolitania box. If there
are more than five Stacking Points that are to be
brought onto the map, they may be strung out on
the Road in consecutive hexes (road) from the
Tripolitania box; e.g., 5 points in hex 2802, 5.
points in 2803, and 3 points in 2804.

[8.86] Reinforcements and replacements arriving
in Tunis or Tripoli may not be moved from that
box during the Operations Stage of their arrival.

{8.87] There are no stacking restrictions and
unlimited Water in the Tripoli/Tunisia boxes and
the In Transit boxes. In addition, the
Tripoli/Tunisia boxes are considered to contain
air facilities, mon-transferrable supplies and
maintenance crews sufficient for every plane the
Axis Player has.

[8.88] The Tripoli/Tunisia boxes are considered
to be Supply Dumps of unlimited capacity.
However, a truck or motorization point may not
be moved in the Operations Stage in which it loads
and/or unloads supplies.

[8.89] Off-Map Land Units Movement Distance
Chart (see Charts and Tables)

[8.9] MOTORIZED UNITS/TRUCKS

[8.91] A motorized unit in CNA is one that always
contains enough vehicles to transport the entire
unit as a single entity. Motorized units include
those comprised of mechanized (i.e., tracked)
vehicles, trucks, and motorcycles. Motorized units
are divided into those that are inherently motoriz-
ed (whose transportation vehicles may not normal-
ly be removed) and those that are being
transported by truck points assigned to that pur-
pose.

[8.92] Non-motorized units (i.e., ‘‘leg’’ infantry
and a few gun units, with the exception of the
Meharisti Cavalry (camels), may be transformed
into motorized units (and visa versa) by the addi-
tion/(subtraction) of sufficient Truck Points.
When being transported by trucks, a non-
motorized unit’s CPA becomes that of the ap-
propriate rating of the truck that is transporting it.

[8.93] Certain non-motorized infantry units are
designated as being historically normally supplied
with enough vehicles to motorize the entire unit.
These infantry units are so indicated by a ‘“‘+”’
symbol after their CPA on the Unit Characteristics
Chart. These units’ characteristics differ only
slightly with respect to their historically non-
motorized brothers (see Cases 19.9 and 32.54).

[8.94] A motorized unit maintains its CPA even if
it is performing an action which is impossible
while actually in a vehicle. Examples: A towed
(inherently) motorized artillery unit Barraging, an
infantry unit receiving defensive benefits from for-
tifications, a motorized infantry unit assaulting in-
toa salt marsh hex.

{8.95] Truck Points may be used to transport
TOE Strength Points or supplies. Truck Points
represented by a counter (for example: all of the
Truck Points attached to an infantry division
which is represented on the game map by its HQ
counter) are assigned transportation duties in-
dividually,

Example: An infantry Battalion of six TOE
Strength Points with 10 light, 10 Medium and 10
Heavy Truck Points attached might assign 4 light,
two medium and one heavy Truck Points to the in-
fantry in order to completely motorize the unit
(this is inefficient, but variations on this theme will
inevitably occur). Note that Truck Points are
never required to transport anything, they may
move around empty.

{8.96] Truck Points may be attached to any unit in

CNA bearing a historical designation. When at-
tached they are represented by the unit’s counter.
However, trucks are automatically under the con-
trol of the highest (largest) ranking Parent Forma-
tion to which they are currently attached. Exam-
ple: A Truck Point attached to a battalion which is
subsequently attached to a brigade become the
property of that brigade. It is not necessary to sub-
divide the trucks among the brigade’s component
units.

[8.97] Trucks may be attached to a unit bearing a
historical designation only during the Organiza-
tion Phase of an Operations Stage (unless during
the Operations State that unit is attached to a
Parent Unit). Trucks may be detached from sucha
unit only during the Organization Phase of an
Operations Stage unless that unit is a Parent Unit
and detaches any of its attached subsidiary units
during a Movement and Combat Phase. In sucha
case any portion of the total number of attached
trucks to that newly detached unit. No unit witha
Cohesion Level of minus five or worse may detach
trucks completely from a unit bearing a historical
designation.

[8.98] During the owning Player’s Player-Turn,
trucks that are attached to units move with those
units in the Movement and Combat Phase, and
trucks that are not attached to units are moved in
the Truck Convoy Phase. In either case, trucks
may be permitted to move during the opposing
Player’s Player-Turn (Reaction, etc.) Trucks that
are moved in the Truck Convoy Phase may not ex-
ceed their CPA. If forced to through involuntary
movement, they are captured instead. Truck
Points being moved in the Truck Convoy Phase
may be moved in any order, group sub-division,
stops and starts. The only restriction being that
Truck Points beginning and ending in the same
hex and following the same path of travel must be
moved as a group. Example: Fifty Truck Points
begin in C2510. They are moved as a group (not re-
quired) to C2515 at which point 20 are moved to
C2520 where they end their movement for that
Truck Convoy Phase. The 30 Truck Points left in
C2515 may now be moved (and sub-divided fur-
ther if you wish). Note that this differentiates them
from units detached from Parent Units (see Case
19.44)

[8.99] A Truck marker may represent any of the
unattached Truck Points in that hex at that point
in time, unless all of those Truck Points are being
used to transport Infantry Replacement Points.
The marker may be used to represent any Replace-
ment Points or repaired vehicles in that hex (i.e.,
may not place the marker if just Tank Replace-
ment Points in the hex). As many markers may be
placed as there are unattached Truck Points in that
hex.

[9.0] STACKING
GENERAL RULE:

Stacking refers to the process of placing more than
one unit in a hex. Each unit is worth a certain
number of Stacking Points, generally as printed on
the counter, and each hex, according to the type of
terrain it encompasses, has a maximum number of
points that may bein that hex.

[9.1] THE STACKING POINT SYSTEM
[9.14] Each unit (or counter) in the game has a
Stacking Point value printed on the face of the
unit. (See Sample Units, 4.22). E.g., the 1/8
Panzer Battalion has 1 Stacking Point.

[9.12] HQ units, whether Division, Brigade, or
Regiment, have parenthesized Stacking Point

values. This means the Stacking Point value of
that HQ is ‘0’ when it has no combat units of any
type attached; the printed number is its Stacking
Point value when it represents the division or
brigade as a combat unit. (See Unit Equivalents,
9.2).

[9.13] Stacking Points not only represent a given
number of men but also, and more importantly,
they represent organizational ability. Thus a full
division has a Stacking Point value of ‘5’, while, at
the same time, it may include units whose total
Stacking Point values are much greater than five.
The divisional HQ supplies the necessary ad-
ministrative and organizational functions that
enables the division to exist — and fight — in a
more cohesive state.

[9.14] Each hex, or rather each type of terrain,
has a maximum number of Stacking Points which
may be in that hex at the end of any Movement
Segment. These limits are listed in Case 8.37.

[9.15] Informational markers and air units of all
types do not have any Stacking Point value.

[9.16] There are three specific types of units that,
on certain occasions, ignore Stacking restrictions:

a. Garrison units (those units with a ‘““G’’ above
their Stacking Point number) stack freely in the
city/village to which they are assigned as a Gar-
rison. E.g., the Italian Heavy Weapons battalion
assigned as garrison to Fort Maddalenna would
have ‘0’ Stacking Points in that village but ‘1’
point anywhere else.

b. Pure anti-aircraft units (those units with the
identification symbol for AA/Flak) stack freely in
Major Cities. In addition, one AA/Flak unit may
stack freely with any air landing strip and three in
any airfield.

a “0+” CPA that are not at present motorized
(have trucks attached that are being used to
transport them) have zero Stacking Points.

[9.2] UNIT EQUIVALENTS

[9.21] A Division is considered to represent all
units assigned and attached to (not simply stacked
with) the HQ unit for that division. Units assigned
(19.1) to a division (see the TOE Sheets for the
units) may not necessarily be part of that division
at a given time; they may have been detached for
duty elsewhere. Only those units with the Parent
unit/HQ at a given time are considered to be part
of that parent unit for Stacking purposes.

[9.22] The next lowest level of unit organization in
CNA is the Brigade Equivalent. Now, because of
the peculiarities of the individual countries involv-
ed, not all units which are called ‘‘brigades”’ are
brigade equivalents. The Italians used a Regi-
mental designation as their next lowest organiz-
ational level (see any Italian infantry division).
Such a Regiment is considered to be a Brigade
equivalent for game purposes. Furthermore, the
British had a propensity for using the terms
“‘brigade’’ and ‘‘regiment’’ for a whole host of
lesser-sized units, usually battalions. (E.g., the 7th
Rifle Brigade is really a battalion-sized infantry
unit while the 7th Motor Brigade is a Brigade).
Players should be guided through this maze not by
the unit designation on the counter or the unit’s
name but rather through the printed Stacking
Point value. This number, cross-referenced with
Section 9.4, will reveal the organizatioinal level of
the unit (for game purposes).

[9.23] The basic combat unit in the game is the in-
fantry and tank battalion (‘‘battalion equiva-
lent’’). As noted, some battalion-sized units (ac-
tual battalion equivalents) may be called ‘‘regi-
ments’’ or some such. Check the Stacking Point
value when in doubt.

[9.24] Regardiess of its organizational desig-
nation, every artillery unit in the game, with the

exception of certain scattered batteries, has a
Stacking Point value of ‘1’’. (The rare Artillery
HQ unit may have a larger Stacking Point value).

[9.25] There are a number of companies and bat-
teries in the game with a Stacking Point value of
“?’, due to the miniscule number of men and
combat impact those units had. Nevertheless, un-
less directly attached or assigned to a parent unit,
no more than five such companies or batteries may
ever be stacked in any one hex, in addition to what-
ever else is in that hex. Exception: there is no limit
to the number of such units which may be placed in
a Major City hex. Note: an HQ unit that has no
combat units attached to it has a Stacking Point
value of ‘‘0’’.

[9.26] A Division is considered a ‘‘shell’’ (see Case
3.1) when 50% or less of the total number of
brigade-equivalents that may be assigned to it are
attached to it. E.g., if a division which may have a
maximum of two brigades assigned currently has
only one brigade attached to it (ignore any in-
dependent battalions or whatever), the division is
considered a shell. A brigade is considered to be a
shell if less than 2/3rds of the total number of bat-
talions (combat units) that may be assigned to it
are attached to it. Exception: a brigade to which a
maximum of two battalions may be assigned is not
considered a shell if two battalions are attached to
it and at least one of them is not itself a shell. A
battalion is considered to be a shell when less than
50% of its maximum TOE Strength Points are at-
tached to it, unless it is an Artillery battalion (or
regiment or whatever); an artillery unit must be
less than 25% of TOE strength to bea shell.

[9.27] If a unit attached to a parent formation isa
shell, it does not count as one of the pre-requisite
lower level units necessary to allow the parent unit
to qualify as a full-strength unit. For example, a
division to which a maximum of three brigades
may be assigned has three brigades attached to it,
but two of the brigades are shells. The division
itself is thus considered to bea shell.

[9.28] A unit that is a shell is reduced one level to
the next lowest-level formation for purposes of
Unit Differentiation on Close Assault (see Case
15.5) and for any rule where unit size is important.
Thus, a division shell would be considered a
brigade equivalent, a brigade shell a battalion
equivalent, and a battalion shell a company
equivalent.

[9.29] First line (attached) Trucks do not count in
any way towards unit organizational size or for
road space stacking limits. Furthermore, Truck
Convoys (unattached, see Case 9.3) that are ina
hex do not count against any stacking limits, ex-
cept those concerning road space, for which they
do count.

[9.3] THE EFFECTS OF STACKING

Stacking restrictions limit the number of units that
can be in a hex at the end of a Friendly Movement
Segment, as well as at the end of an Operations
Stage. Stacking restrictions also affect the ability
of motorized units to move through Friendly units
on a Road or Track. Stacking restrictions also ap-
ply during involuntary retreats. The stacking
limits for each type of terrain are listed on the Ter-
rain Effects Chart (8.37).

[9.31] Units may never cease movement ina hex in
violation of stacking restrictions (8.37).

[9.32] Units may always move through other
friendly units, and stacking restrictions apply only
at the instant all units have ceased movement.
However, see 9.33 and 9.35.

[9.33] A motorized unit (tank, truck, artillery,
motorcycle, etc.) using a Road or Track to
facilitate movement may not exceed the five point

Road or Track Stacking Limit by moving through
a Friendly unit or units on that Track or Road. Ifa
unit using a Road or Track would create such a
situation it must “‘move around”’ the non-moving
units, entering that hex without the Road or Track
benefit. Note: some terrain is prohibited to
motorized units and such units could not move off
a road to ‘‘go around”? in such terrain. A unit end-
ing its movement in a hex that it entered along a
Road or Track counts against the Road/Track
Stacking limit for any other motorized unit(s) us-
ing that Road/Track. For this rule, Trucks in Con-
voy are treated separately. See Case 9.29. Note:
Off-road markers are provided with the game.
They may be used to indicate units moved into a
road hex without using the Road Bonus, and
therefore are not ‘‘on the road’’ for purposes of
this Case.

[9.34] Players are not permitted to ‘‘break up” a
unit in order to avoid exceeding the limits of 9.33;
i.e, moving through an occupied Road/Track hex
a sub-unit at a time and then recombining the sub-
units into the original unit. (Players should note
that 9.33 and 9.34 operate to prohibit certain units
from crossing escarpments by tracks if either
side of that escarpment is occupied by Friendly
units that would block passage as per Case 9.33).

[9.35] Stacking restrictions do apply during in-
voluntary Retreats (those retreats mandated by the
Close Assault CRT). A unit or stack of units may
not retreat through a hex involuntarily in violation
of Stacking Restrictions. However, in involuntary
retreats, a stack of units (or parent formation)
may be split up and retreated into different hexes
(not through the same hex, though). Any portion
of a unit forcéd to retreat that cannot so retreat
because of Stacking Restrictions is required to
““Stand’’ and receive additional losses (see Case
15.82).

[9.4] UNIT BASIC STACKING
POINT VALUES

(see separate sheet)

[10.0] ZONES OF CONTROL
GENERAL RULE:

The six hexagons immediately surrounding a hex
constitute the Zone of Control (ZOC) of any unit
in that hex. However, only certain types and sizes
of units exert ZOC’s. Hexes upon which a unit ex-
erts a ZOC are called controlled hexes, and these
inhibit movement of Enemy units. All units must
cease movement upon entering an Enemy-
controlled hex.

[10.1] WHICH UNITS EXERT
A ZONE OF CONTROL

[10.11] All combat units above battalion-
equivalent (i.e. with more than one Stacking
Point) exert a Zone of Control. In addition, if
there is more than one Stacking Point in a hex even
if no larger-than-battalion unit is present, the units
in that hex also exert a ZOC. Truck Convoys never
exert a ZOC, nor do HQ units that have fo attach-
ed combat units.

[10.12] Aircraft, Squadron Ground Support
units, and warships exert no ZOC.

{10.13] Informational markers, such as dumps,
minefields, airfields, etc., do not exert a ZOC.
[16.14] Units with a Cohesion Level of —26 or
worse do not exert a ZOC.

[10.15] Regardless of 10.11, any unit(s) in a hex
that total less than ten Raw Defensive Close

18

Assault Points do not exert a ZOC, whatever the
organizational size of the unit. For this purpose,
anti-tank units are always presumed to be Up
Front (see Case 12.1).

[10.16] The non-Phasing Player must inform the
Phasing Player whether or nota particular unit ex-
erts a Zone of Control if that unit could exert a
Zone into a hex and a unit belonging to the Phas-
ing Player either begins a Movement Segment in
that hex or is moved into that hex.

[10.2] EFFECTS OF ZONES
OF CONTROL

[10.21] ZOC’s extend into all hexes on the game-
map, with the following exceptions:

a. ZOC’s do not extend through All-Sea hexsides,
Major River hexsides, or Lake hexsides; and

b. ZOC’s do not extend through Escarpment hex-
sides; and

c. ZOC’s do not extend into any adjacent hex into
which the unit wishing to exert the ZOC could not
enter from its present location. (Example: a Tank
Battalion could not exert a ZOC into a Salt Marsh
hex unless there was a Track or Road connecting
the two hexes.)

[10.22] There is no cost in CP’s to enter an Enemy
ZOC. However, see Section 10.3.

[10.23] A unit must cease movement upon enter-
ing an Enemy-controlled hex. The moving unit
may not exit that Enemy-controlled hex until the
next Movement Segment (within that Operations
Stage or in the next Operations Stage). If a unit
begins a Movement Segment in an Enemy-
controlled hex it may leave that ZOC, at a cost in
CP’s to Break Off (8.7). Units may not be
retreated into a hex in an Enemy ZOC (exception:
see Case 10.26).

[10.24] No units may be moved directly from one
Enemy-controlled hex into another Enemy-
controlled hex. However, terrain permitting, a
unit may always ‘‘advance’”’ into an adjacent hex
vacated by an Enemy unit as a result of Combat,
Retreat Before Assault, or Reaction. Such ad-
vance is taken as part of movement in the ensuing
Movement Segment and costs CP’s. (There is no
literal Advance After Combat rule in CNA; this
rule is simply an exception to the no-movement-
into-Enemy-ZOC’s rule).

[10.25] Friendly units may move through hexes
adjacent to an Enemy combat unit that are not
controlled by that Enemy unit’s ZOC. (See Cases
10.1 and 10.21).

[18.26] For al/ movement purposes, the presence
of a Friendly combat unit in a hex negates the ef-
fect of an Enemy ZOC. Friendly ZOC’s never af-
fect Friendly units.

[10.27] Opposing units exerting ZOC’s on each
other are considered to be in each other’s ZOC.
Furthermore, if opposing units exert a ZOC into
the same hex that hex is considered to be controll-
ed by both Players.

{10.28] There is no additional effect when more
than one unit exerts a ZOC into a given hex.

[20.29] Truck Convoys may not enter an Enemy
ZOC unless such hex is already occupied by a
Friendly combat unit. Furthermore, no non-
combat unit (i.e., bare HQ’s, Engineers, Air
Squadron Ground Support Units, etc.) may ever
enter an unoccupied hex in an enemy ZOC volun-
tarily. If such a unit is alone in an Enemy ZOC at
any time during the Enemy Movement/Combat
Phase and it has no strength of any type, such
Friendly non-combat unit is Captured.

[10.3] ZOC COMBAT REQUIREMENTS
(HOLDING OFF)

{10.31] All hexes containing Enemy units exerting

Zones of Control on Friendly combat units must
be attacked—either by Artillery Barrage or by
Close Assault.

Note: A Probe (see Case 15.9) satisfies this re-
quirement if the basic differential is — 4 or better.

[10.32] As an exception to 10.31, if the Friendly
units in such Enemy ZOC consist solely of Ar-
tillery, anti-tank, or anti-aircraft (or non-combat)
units, or there are other type units but they are pin-
ned (12.42), these units do not have to attack as in
Case 10.31.

[20.33] Players may use a special ‘‘Holding Off’’
Artillery Barrage to satisfy the requirements of
10.31. (For experienced gamers, this is a
sophisticated version of ‘‘Soaking Off’’.) Thus a
Friendly Division that is in the ZOC of Enemy
units from two different hexes may choose to Hold
Off one of those hexes and Close Assault the
other.

[16.34] To perform a Holding Off Barrage, a
Friendly Player must Barrage an Enemy hex with
at least as many Actual Barrage Strength Points
(i.e., Barrage Rating x TOE Strength + 10) as
there are individual non-Gun (i.e., Artillery, Anti-
Tank or AA units) Enemy battalion-equivalent
combat units (units with /ess than 1 Stacking Point
and Gun units do not count) in that hex.
Remember, an Enemy Division may consist of,
say, eleven battalion-equivalent units, so the
Friendly Barraging Player would need 11 Actual
Barrage Points to perform a Holding Off action
against such a Division.

[10.35] If, according to the precepts of 10.34, a
Friendly Phasing Player can not Hold Off Enemy
units ina given hex he must Close Assault that hex.
(Remember Case 10.32). There is no minimum
point requirement for a Close Assault.

[10.36] If, for any reason, a unit can neither
Assault nor Hold Off an Enemy unit, that Friend-
ly unit must Retreat three hexes (playing all CP’s
for such movement) and earn three Disorganiza-
tion Points, in addition to any garnered by the
retreat. Such retreat must place the retreating unit
three hexes distant from the Enemy unit (no
doubling back, etc.) and may not be made through
any hexes in Enemy Zones of Control. If forced to
enter an Enemy ZOC the unit Surrenders in entire-
ty.

[11.0] THE COMBAT SYSTEM
COMMENTARY:

CNA is an operational-level simulation, and it has
been the history of operational games to have
combat systems of a generally simple level (cf.
Panzergruppe Guderian, Battle of the Bulge, even
War in Europe). However, the combat system in
CNA is a multi-layered sequence consisting of
several steps, all of which have been designed to
take into effect not only the characteristics of the
individual types of weapons (small arms fire vis a
vis indirect artillery fire, etc.) but also the unique-
ness of desert warfare. This imparts a tactical
flavor to combat without resort to actual play-outs
of combat on a tactical level. Much has been
abstracted (the major abstraction being artillery
ranges), but there is still a wealth of information
available as to relative strengths, compositions
and capabilities of the different units. Above all,
we have attempted to instill a ‘‘combined arms’’
imperative in the combat system, with the result
that unit composition is as important as actual
strength. The CNA combat system requires some
mathematical dexterity, but most of all it requires
a good sense of organization and planning. Most

Players will enter combat “‘blind,’’ knowing little
about the Enemy. Knowing what to hold back and
where to assign guns and tanks is all important.

The Combat System may appear complex, but it is
simply a matter of following the sequence and
making the necessary calculations as you progress.
This section should be referred to when under-
going combat, at least until the mechanics of the
sequence are well within the grasp of the Players.

GENERAL RULE:

During each Combat Segment, combat is man-
datory between opposing units in adjacent con-
trolled hexes. There are four basic types of combat
activity: Barrage, Retreat Before Assault (non-
Phasing units only), Anti-Armor, and Close
Assault (offensive for the Phasing Player’s units
and defensive for the non-Phasing Player’s units).
Prior to the resolution of each type of combat, the
Phasing and non-Phasing Players secretly allocate
units to perform one or more of these activities, as
they choose. The relative ability of a unit to per-
form a combat activity is a function of its basic
rating for that activity modified by its current
TOE Strength Level (excepting Retreat Before
Combat, which any unpinned units may perform).
Each activity necessitates the expenditure of
Capability Points.

This Section discusses combat in general terms, as
well as showing how the combat ratings are used.
Combat resolution for each type of activity is
discussed specifically in Sections 12.0 (Barrage),
13.0 (Retreat Before Combat), 14.0 (Anti-Armor
Fire), and 15.0 (Close Assault).

PROCEDURE:

Once all movement has ceased (i.e., the Phasing
Player’s movement and the non-Phasing Player’s
reactions), combat may occur. During a Combat
Segment, the Phasing Player must attack all
Enemy-occupied hexes which have units exerting
Zones of Control upon Friendly units (see Case
10.3). Any other Enemy units in hexes adjacent to
Friendly units may be attacked subject to terrain
restrictions on combat. After determining which
units are undergoing combat, each Player decides
which Gun-class units in hexes adjacent to Enemy
units will be placed in a Forward position and
which will be considered in a Back position (see
Case 12.1). This is done ‘‘secretly,’’ each Player
simply noting on either the TOE sheets or some
other piece of paper the appropriate positions of
his guns. Gun units remain in their specified posi-
tions throughout that Combat Segment. Players
now engage in Barrage. Each Player decides which
of his units will Barrage which Enemy hexes (see
Case 12.2), noting the targets secretly on a piece of
paper. Any adjacent hex containing Enemy units
may be barraged. Both Players now Barrage in-
dividually, hex by hex, but casualties and Pinned
results are taken after a// Barrages have been com-
pleted. Players should note here any Barrages
undertaken as Holding Off actions to satisfy ZOC
combat requirements (see Case 10.3).

The non-Phasing Player may now Retreat Before
Assault with any of his units that were not Pinned
during Barrage.

Both Players now (and secretly, again) assign their
units (including forward Gun-class units) to Anti-
Armor and/or Close Assault roles. Any unit with
an Anti-Armor rating may be assigned to the
former. An individual unit may be assigned to
both Anti-Armor Assault and Close Assault. This
is done by dividing the TOE Strength Points of
that unit between both types of Assault. However,
an individual TOE Strength Point may never be so
divided. Players may also choose to withhold un-

pinned Armor or Gun-class units out of combat
(for whatever reason they so desire; usually am-
munition costs). The strengths of these units is not
considered; see Cases 15.29 and 15.8.

Both sides now engage in Anti-Armor Fire, each
side firing at the other’s ‘‘armor’’, All results from
Anti-Armor Fire are taken before proceeding to
Close Assault. All Armor units assigned to Anti-
Armor or Close Assault are subject to Anti-Armor
Fire. Withheld armor units are not subject to such
fire. Thus, tanks assigned to Close Assault roles
may be destroyed during Anti-Armor Fire.

After assessing losses from Anti-Armor Fire the
Phasing Player engages in Close Assault against
the non-Phasing Player. Only units assigned to
Close Assault are used to determine the Assault
Differential (however, see Case 14.26). Remember
to adjust Close Assault Strengths for losses incur-
red from Anti-Armor Fire. Players now take
casualties from Close Assault, place ‘“‘“Engaged’’
markers as needed and conduct any Retreats man-
dated by the Close Assault CRT. This concludes
the Combat Segment, and the Phasing Player may
now release any reserves he wishes and proceeds
back to his Movement Segment (if he so desires).

The above sequence is general. For a complete
description of all activities, consult Sections 12.0
through 15.0

CASES:

(11.1] UNIT COMBAT
CHARACTERISTICS

There are seven Land Unit Combat character-
istics: Barrage, Vulnerability, Anti-Armor, Ar-
mor Protection, Offensive Close Assault, Defen-
sive Close Assault, and Anti-Aircraft. (The in-
dividual OA Sheets carry all the information for
each unit in the game; the unit counters do not
carry this information.) Every Land unit has been
given a Rating (or a Factor used to multiply by
TOE Strength) of its capabilities and relative
strength in each of these areas. (See Designer’s
Notes for a discussion of how these ratings were
arrived at). These are described in Case 3.5.

[11.11] The Barrage Rating is the measure of a
unit’s ability to engage in long-range indirect fire.
Only Artillery units possess a Barrage rating.
[14.12] The Vulnerability Rating is an abstraction
of a Gun unit’s susceptibility to Close Assault, or
how far back from the front it can operate without
being affected by direct fire. All Guns — i.e., Ar-
tillery and Anti-Tank units — possess Vulner-
ability Ratings.

[11.13] The Anti-Armor Rating is a measure of a
unit’s ability to engage in direct fire with and
destroy opposing Armored units.

[11.14] Armor Protection is a measure of a unit’s
armor, its strength and thickness vis a vis opposing
Anti-Armor Ratings. Units that have Armor Pro-
tection Ratings are usually limited to Tanks, Recce
and Armored Car units, and Self-Propelled Ar-
tillery.

[11.15] The two Close Assault Ratings are a
measure of a unit’s ability to perform (Offensive
Assault) and defend against (Defensive Assault)
Close Assault combat.

[11.16] The AA Rating of a unit is its ability to
shoot down planes. For the most part, only
AA/Flak units have this rating, but it can be found
on other units. E.g., some Tanks have AA/Flak
capability, as do some HQ units.

[11.2] CAPABILITY POINT

EXPENDITURES FOR COMBAT

(11.21) A non-Phasing unit expends three CP’s if
it undergoes an attack. Exception: see Case 11.27.
This will occur under the following circumstances:

a. Ifit Barrages an Enemy (Phasing) unit; or

b. If it undergoes any form of Assault (Anti-
Tank, Close) except Probe (2 CP’s). This includes
the situation where a unit Retreats Before Assault
into a Friendly hex that is later assaulted.

c. If it undergoes a Holding Off Barrage (see Case
10.3).

[11.22] A Phasing unit expends five CP’s to per-
form any form of attack, other than a Probe. It
can never expend more than five CP’s in a given
Combat, although if it engages in a different (new)
round of combat after completing the first round
of combat it will (possibly) expend more CP’s. The
following is a list of circumstances under which a
combat unit expends 5 CP’s to attack:

1. It Barrages an Enemy unit; or
2. It engages in Anti-Armor or Close Assault.

[11.23] A Phasing unit expends fewer than 5 CP’s
under the following circumstances:

1. It Probes an Enemy unit (2 CP’s), or

2. It undergoes Barrage (3 CP’s).

[11.24] A non-Phasing unit never expends more
than fhree CP’s in combat in a given Combat Seg-
ment, regardless of what happens to it in that Seg-
ment. A Phasing unit never expends more than
five CP’s in a given Combat Segment. See Case
11.27.

[11.25] CP expenditures apply to a@// units in a
hex, even if certain units did not participate in
combat in any way. This applies to Phasing and
non-Phasing units. Thus, if the Commonwealth
Player Close Assaults with his entire 7th Armored
Division, but chooses to withhold the Ist KRRC,
the entire division expends five CP’s, including the
non-participating Ist KRRC. Concurrently, if the
Artillery units of the 7th Armored Division had
barraged Enemy units and then the 7th Armored
did nothing else, the entire division (if it were all in
the same hex) would still expend 5 CP’s.

[11.26] Generally, Phasing units will expend 5
CP’s and non-Phasing units 3 CP’s ina given com-
bat Segment, except where a Phasing unit chooses
to Probe. However, remember, if units in the hex
with the Probing units Barrage the Enemy units
those units expend 5 CP’s, regardless of the Probe
attempt.

[11.27] A unit defending against a full (non-
Probe) Close Assault in which the final Assault
Differential is minus four or worse expends only
one CP to defend.

[11.3] CALCULATION OF

COMBAT STRENGTHS
The Combat Strengths of a unit for a given func-
tion (Assault, Anti-Tank, etc.) are stated in Actual
Strength Points, which are arrived at by multiply-
ing the TOE Strength by the Combat Rating for
that particular function and then dividing this Raw
Strength by fen (except for A.A). This does not ap-
ply to a unit’s Armor Protection or Vulnerability
Ratings, which remain constant and are applied
and used differently.
[14.31] The relative strength value of units during
combat (with some exceptions noted’ below) is ex-
pressed in Actual Stength Points. These Actual
Points are either applied directly to a hex or unit
(as in Barrage or Anti-Armor) or compared with
the Enemy forces (as in Close Assauit or Probe).
Case 12.54 is a minor exception to this rule.

[11.32] The formula for arriving at the Actual
Strength of a unit is as follows: Combat Rating x
TOE Strength used + 10 = Actual Strength
Points. Players should round any decimals to the
nearest whole number: 11.4 = 11, 11.5 = 12.

(11.33] A unit that has less than .5 Actual Points
(or, to state it differently, has only four or less
Raw Points) has an Actual Strength of zero (0).

However, if both sides of a Close Assault or Probe
have less than fen Raw Points Players should use
the Raw Points as if they were Actual Points. See
also Case 15.51. Raw Points are the numbers ar-
rived at by multiplying the Combat Rating by the
TOE Strength.

{11.34} All Raw Points are totaled before dividing
by 10 for Actual Strength. This applies for units
within a hex as well as units attacking from dif-
ferent hexes (against the same target).

[11.35] As an example, we will demonstrate how
to determine a variety of combat strengths for an
entire Division, using the German 90th Leichte
Division as an example (see the OA Sheets for this
unit). We will assume the unit is at full strength
and that all units assigned are currently attached to
the division and that there are no other units at-
tached.

The Axis Player wishes to use the Artillery in the
90th to Barrage the enemy; it has the 361 Artillery
Battalion and the 190th Artillery Rgt. to do this.
The 361 has 3 TOE points of 9-rating Barrage, or
27 Raw Points. The 190 has 3 TOE of 18 Rating
Barrage plus 3 TOE points of 9-Rating Barrage,
for a total of 81 Raw points (27 + 54 = 81). Thus
a combined total of 108 Raw Barrage Points is
available, which equals 11 Actual Barrage Points
(108 + 10 = 10.8, rounded up to 11). The 90th
may now Barrage with those 11 Actual Points
against the enemy. The Axis Player could also split
up its TOE Strength if he wishes, using 2 TOE
points of the 361st (or 2 Actual Points) against one
unit and the other TOE point against a different
unit. There are restrictions involved, and the Sec-
tion on Barrage (12.0) covers them all.

Skipping to Close Assault — for demonstration
purposes — we see that the 90th Leichte has seven
Infantry Battalions: the entire 155th Schutzen
Regt. (3 battalions), the two battalions of thé 361st
Afrika Regt plus the III/225 and the III/347 Bat-
talions. The 155th provides 42 Raw Points, the
361st provides 9 Raw Points (it would provide 18
on defense) and the two odd battalions an addi-
tional 14, for a grand total of 65 Raw Offensive
Close Assault Points (excluding any Artillery fir-
ing in Assault), or 7 Actual Points (6.5 rounded
up). As above, these points could be split, by
dividing the TOE points, or assigning different
battalions to assault different hexes, etc. Each
separate Close Assault is determined individually.

[11.36] It will behoove the Players to keep a run-
ning track of all Raw and Actual Point totals for
his Parent organizations on his TOE Sheets, so he
knows at a glance what is available and what his
strengths are. These strengths are to be kept secret
from opposing Players, revealed only upon attack.

(11.37] AA/Flak Actual Points are calculated the
same as other strengths, with one major dif-
ference. As with anti-armor, close assault, and
barrage calculations, multiply the TOE Strength
by the AA Rating. But do not divide by ten; the
raw AA Points are the Actual AA Points. Thus, an
AA unit with a rating of 4 and a strength of 2
would have 8 AA Points.

[11.38] The only combat ratings that do not use
the above formula (multiplying by TOE Strength,
etc.) are the Vulnerability and Armor Protection

‘ratings. These ratings are used to determine the

number of gun and armor losses and are discussed
in Cases 14.42 and 15.85.

[12.0] BARRAGE
(Artillery Combat)

GENERAL RULE:

Barrage is the first ‘‘step’’ of the Combat Seg-
ment. Any combat or HQ unit with a Barrage

19

20

Rating (and enough ammunition) may Barrage
enemy units in adjacent hexes. Each Player simply
determines how many Actual Barrage Points he
has, selects his targets, and fires his guns at the
selected targets, subtracting ammunition as used.
At the beginning of the Combat Segment, all Ar-
tillery units are placed in either of two positions:
Forward or Back. The position of a gun unit dic-
tates whether it may coordinate fire with other ar-
tillery units and whether it may split its fire to Bar-
rage more than one target.

PROCEDURE:

After all Targets have been designated and Bar-
rage Points assigned to those Targets (see Case
12.23), Barrage is resolved. The effects of Barrage
are simultaneous, in that all results are applied
after all Barrages are completed, but each in-
dividual Target is barraged separately, in any
order the Players desire. To resolve a Barrage, the
Barraging Player states his Target (either by type
or number, as explained in Case 12.24, or by
specific unit I.D., if he has that information),
states the number of Actual Barrage Points (see
Case 11.32) directed at that Target and then con-
sults the Barrage Results Table (12.6), selecting the
appropriate portion depending on the type of unit
being fired at (Gun, Armor, or Infantry), He then
rolls two dice, combining the results such that the
larger die’s result is stated first and the small die’s
second (e.g., a ‘‘27’/*5’”’ is considered a ‘‘25’’).
The result is cross referenced with the Target type
and the Actual Barrage Points expended. The
Player then repeats the process to determine
whether any trucks in the hex are affected. Results
are noted, and applied at the end of the Barrage
Step. The firing Player also subtracts ammunition
expended as his guns are fired.

Note: ‘‘Holding-off’’ Barrages are resolved in the
same fashion as normal] Barrage (see Case 10.3).

[42.1] ARTILLERY POSITIONS

[12.11] Artillery units, when they are involved in
combat, must be placed either Forward or Back.
The entire unit, regardless of its size (or whether,
as in some artillery units, it has more than one type
of gun) must be placed in the same position.

[12.12] The position of an artillery unit may not
be changed during a Combat Segment; it may be
changed only at the beginning of a Combat Seg-
ment, when the Players must decide their gun posi-
tions.(See the Sequence of Play.) Positions of guns
may be noted on the TOE Sheets or on any handy
piece of paper.

{12.13} Artillery units in a Forward position may
coordinate fire with other artillery units (in a For-
ward position) from the same or different hexes.
i.e., they may combine its Barrage Strength with
that of other units directed at a given target.

(12.14] fralian units in a Forward position may
co-ordinate Barrage fire only with units within the
same hex.

[12.15] Artillery units in a Forward position may
split their TOE Strength and attack more than one
target, directing a portion of its TOE Strength
against one unit and another portion against a dif-
ferent unit (target).

[12.16] Artillery units in a Back position may not
coordinate fire with any other artillery unit nor
may they split fire. If a Heavy Weapons unit has
Barrage capability and its guns are back, the entire
unit is considered back and thus cannot participate
in anti-armor or Close Assault combat.

[12.17] All non-Phasing Players’ Guns in a For-
ward position are subject to losses from Close
Assault, even if they do not participate in such an
assault. See Section 15.8 for details on losses. All

non-Phasing (Forward or Back) are subject to
Close Assault losses if the Close Assault by the
Phasing Player is conducted in the Overrun Col-
umns of the Close Assault CRT (see Case 15.84).

[12.18] Artillery placed in a Forward position
may participate in Anti-Tank or Close Assault in
that same Combat Segment, providing they have
the necessary Ratings and Ammunition. However,
Artillery participating in an Offensive Close
Assault has its Vulnerability rating reduced by
50% (%) rounded up. Thus a unit with a 7
Vulnerability Rating would have a 4 Vulnerability
Rating if it chose to participate in Offensive Close
Assault. Note: the higher a unit’s Vulnerability
Rating, the /ess vulnerable it is.

[12.19] Artillery units used in an Anti-Armor
(14.0) role assume an automatic Vulnerability
Rating of ‘2’.

[12.2] TARGET SELECTION

[12.21] Target Selection involves the principle
that a Parent Formation is comprised of one or
more battalion- (or company-) sized units. Thus,
the 90th Leichte Division (German) is composed of
thirteen battalion-sized combat units.

[12.22] For Barrage purposes, all (with the
following exceptions) counters, whether attached
or not, in a hex that bear a Stacking Point in-
dicator are targets. This includes engineer units
but excludes Trucks, SGSU’s, etc. The exception is
all HQ’s without TOE Strength Points or with on-
ly points with parenthesized Close Assault
Ratings. In addition, Dummy Tank formations
(see Case 16.4) and Commonwealth warships may
be considered targets.

[12.23] Barrage is directed at a specific target
combat unit (as defined in 12.22). The Barraging
Player states which hexes he wishes to Barrage
from. The opposing Player then states how many
targets (individual battalions/companies) are in
each hex adjacent to a hex which is firing. He also
states whether each Target is a Gun class, Armor
Class, or Infantry Class unit—see Case 3.2. He
does not have to state the strength, exact type or
designation of any unit. However, if a Player
knows that a specific unit is in a hex under Barrage
(through Patrol or previous combat) he may
designate that specific unit as a target.

[12.24] Except as stated in the last sentence of
12.23 the Barraging Player fires ‘‘blind’’, stating
only that he is firing at a given type of unit as
target. For purposes of resolving Barrage, Players
should assign, for a Barrage Step, ID numbers to
each type of unit. E.g., Infantry #1, Infantry #2,
etc. Thus, the Barraging Player states he is direct-
ing ‘‘X’’ number of Actual Barrage Points against
Target Infantry #2.

[12.3] EFFECTS OF TERRAIN
AND OTHER RESTRICTIONS
ON BARRAGE

[12.31] Artillery units may Barrage Enemy targets
in any adjacent hex, regardless of terrain. Artillery
units may not Barrage non-occupied hexes
(however, see Case 12.5),

[12.32] No target may be barraged more than
once in a Combat Segment from each adjacent
enemy occupied hex. Of course, Artillery units ina
Forward position may combine Barrage strengths
in one Barrage against a given Target.

(12.33] Certain terrain affects artillery fire in that
if a Target unit is in that terrain the Column (Bar-
rage Points) used to resolve Barrage for that unit is
shifted a specific number of rows ‘‘left,’’, benefit-
ting the defender. Thus, if a towed artillery unit
were being Barraged as a target ina Level Two For-
tified position (Clear Terrain) by twelve Barrage
Points (the 11-12 column on the Barrage CRT) the
Barrage would be resolved on the 7-8 column,

because a Level Two Fortification benefits the
defender two column shifts.

[12.34] Column shifts — and terrain benefits —
are not cumulative. The defender gets the benefit
of only the best defensive position or terrain. See
the Terrain Effects Chart for all terrain benefits
and column shifts. Remember, column shifts
always benefit the defender. Shifts worse than 1-2
column mean the Barrage had no effect.

[12.35] There are no Line of Sight restrictions in
CNA regarding Artillery. Artillery units may Bar-
rage any unit to which they are adjacent.

[12.4] EXPLANATION OF
ARTILLERY BARRAGE RESULTS

(12.41] The Artillery Barrage Table (12.6) is a
CRT that covers artillery fire against personnel,
Armor, Artillery and concurrent effects on
Trucks. Regardless of the target (see Case 12.5) the
Player will use the Artillery Barrage Table for his
results.

[12.42] The Artillery Barrage Table uses a two-
dice sequential read-out; i.e., a ‘3’ anda ‘4’ are 34,
reading the larget die first. These die rolls com-
prise the columns of the Table, while the total Bar-
rage Points applied to the Target comprise the
rows of the table. The ‘‘meat’’ of the table — the
center portion — is the results, divided according
to target type.

[12.43] The Player notes the number of Barrage
Points being fired, adjusts the column left if
necessary and rolls the two dice. He then cross-
references those two numbers under the correct
target type (personnel, tanks, or artillery) and ob-
tains the result.

[12.44] If a result of ‘‘P’’ is obtained, the entire
target unit is ‘‘Pinned’’, Pinned units may not
move for the remainder of that Combat Segment,
nor may they engage in Anti-Armor Fire or Close
Assault. Pinned units are subject to casualties(see
Case 15.12). Place a Pinned marker on all Pinned
units; remove the marker at the end of the Combat
Segment. ‘‘Pin’’ results from Barrage do not occur
againstGun-class units or Artillery HQ units.

[12.45] A number as a result (e.g., 1 or 2) indicates
the number of TOE Strength Points are destroyed
by the Barrage. Casualties are taken after all Bar-
rages are completed.

[12.46] Trucks may be affected by Artillery Fire.
Every time a Player fires at a given target, be it In-
fantry, Armor or whatever, he must roll a second
time to determine whether any Trucks attached to
the Target unit and/or its parent unit (if any) are
affected. Thus, if a Player has 10 Barrage Points
firing at Infantry he rolls once for the effect on the
target and if , and there are any Trucks in the same
hex as the unit being barraged then the Barraging
Player rolls again on the 10 point row under
Trucks to see how many, if any Trucks were
destroyed. The choice of Trucks to be removed is
up to the Defender, but losses must be distributed
as evenly as possible among types of trucks and
types of cargo. Players should note that when bar-
raging Infantry, if those TOE points are already in
Trucks (motorized) those Trucks are also
eliminated, in addition to any Trucks actually
noted on the Artillery Barrage Table.

{12.5] BARRAGE AGAINST FACILITIES

{12.51] Artillery may be used to Barrage facilities,
rather than actual units, in an effort to reduce their
effectiveness. Such Barrage may be directed
against Major Cities, Fortifications, Roads, Rail-
roads, Supply Dumps, and Air Facilities.

[12.52] Barrage against Facilities follows all the

rules of normal Barrage, with the exception that
the Target designated is the specific facility.

[12.53] In barrages directed against any Facility
other than a Supply Dump or Air Facility the
Players use Air Bombardment Table (41.5), with
the exception that they refer to thé Artillery Bar-
rage Points column in determining the effect of the
Barrage. See Case 41.3.

[12.54] In Barrages directed against Supply
Dumps or Air Facilities the Player uses Air Bom-
bardment Table (41.5); however, he uses his Raw
Barrage Points (not Actual) to correspond to the
Bombload column. Thus 78 Raw Barrage Points
would use the 41-80 column. Remember, do not
use Actual Strength Barrage Points; use Raw
Strength.

[12.55] Off-Shore Bombardment may be used to
Barrage facilities; see Case 30.12.

[12.6] ARTILLERY BARRAGE TABLE
(See Charts and Tables)

[13.0] RETREAT BEFORE
ASSAULT

GENERAL RULE:

Retreat Before Assault takes place after all Bar-
rages have been completed. Any non-Phasing
units that are not Pinned may Retreat Before
Assault in the step designated for such movement.
Retreat Before Assault is movement and consumes
CP’s; it should not be confused with Reaction
(8.5).

[13.1] WHICH UNITS MAY
RETREAT BEFORE ASSAULT

Any non-Phasing Unit that is not Pinned may
Retreat Before Assault. Units with a Cohesion
Level of ~26 or worse may not Retreat Before
Assault.

[13.2] HOW TO OF RETREAT
BEFORE ASSAULT

[13.21] Retreat Before Assault is Voluntary
Movement and is handled exactly as other types of
Movement. It expends CP’s (and Fuel, for
vehicles), and vehicles are subject to Breakdown.
In addition, there are certain other restrictions, as
listed below.

[13.22] Non-Phasing units in the Zone of Control
of an Enemy unit must pay the cost to Break Off
(Contact or Engaged) as stated in Case 8.6.

{13.23] Non-Phasing units that begin a Retreat
Before Assault Step adjacent to an Enemy combat
unit may expend as many CP’s in Retreating as
desired.

[13.24] Non-Phasing units that do not begin a
Retreat Before Assault Step adjacent to an Enemy
combat unit may not expend more than four CP’s
(or move one hex, whichever is greater) in a
Retreat Before Assault.

[13.25] During a Retreat Before Assault units may
expend CP’s only to move; they may not perform
any other function except blowing supply dumps
(see Cases 54.14 and 32.3).

[13.26] As in normal Movement, units must cease
Retreat Before Assault when they enter an Enemy
Zone of Control. They may not Retreat directly
from one Enemy ZOC into another, and if they
cannot avoid this restriction they may not Retreat
Before Assault.

[13.27] Retreat Before Assault is voluntary; as
such it is handled somewhat differently from
retreats mandated by the Close Assault CRT (Case
15.82).

[13.28] Units that Retreat Before Assault into
Friendly-occupied Enemy-controlled hexes, or
into any hex that is attacked in the ensuing Anti-
Armor and Close Assault sub-segments are af-
fected by such combat. They will take — and are
susceptible to — Anti-Armor Fire, but they may
not direct Anti-Armor fire against Enemy units.
They may not add their Offensive or Defensive
Close Assault Ratings into the Assault combat in
that hex, but their TOE Strength Points are includ-
ed when taking percentage losses from that
Assault.

[14.0] ANTI-ARMOR COMBAT

GENERAL RULE:

Anti-Armor Combat is fire by units with an Anti-
Armor Rating directed against Enemy units with
an Armor Protection Rating. Anti-Armor Com-
bat occurs before Close Assault, and all losses
from Anti-Armor are taken before proceeding to
Close Assault, irrespective of what type of combat
the armored unit has been assigned to. Units may
be assigned to either Anti-Armor or Close Assault;
or Players may split the TOE Strength Points
within a unit and assign some to one and some to
another — but never to both in the same Combat
Segment. The Player then determines the Actual
Anti-Armor Strength Points firing at a hex, he
consults the Anti-Armor CRT and based on the
number of Damage Points earned vis a vis the Ar-
mor Protection Rating of the Enemy units. Units
specifically withheld from both Anti-Armor and
Close Assault are not affected by Anti-Armor fire.

PROCEDURE:

During the Anti-Armor Combat Step, both
Players engage in Anti-Armor fire, regardless of
which Player is the Phasing Player. All Anti-
Armor fire is simultaneous (i.e., all results are ap-
plied after all attacks have been resolved).

me

A

Anti-Armor fire is directed against a specific hex
designated by the Phasing Player and affects only
those units in that hex that have an Armor Protec-
tion Rating (see Case 14.23) which have not been
withheld. Each Player totals his Actual Anti-
Armor Strength Points firing in that hex (see Case
11.32), rolls two dice, and consults the Anti-
Armor Combat Results Table (14.6) to see how
many Damage Points he has inflicted. These
points are then applied by the owning (fired upon,
so to speak) Player to remove (eliminate) TOE
Points with Armor Protection Ratings in that hex
(see Case 14.4, Assessing Anti-Armor Damage),
and a Destroyed Tank marker is placed in the hex.

Each Anti-Armor attack is performed separately
in any order the Players wish, as all results are only
applied after all fire is complete.

{14.1] WHICH UNITS MAY
PARTICIPATE IN
ANTI-ARMOR COMBAT

[14.11] Anti-Armor Combat pits units with Anti-
Armor Ratings firing against targets that have Ar-
mor Protection Ratings. Only units assigned to the
Anti-Armor Sub-Segment of the Combat Segment
may fire their Anti-Armor Points, and only those
units actually committed to Anti-Armor or Close
Assault are affected by such fire (see Case 14.12).
Units with Armor Protection Ratings withheld
from combat are not affected by Anti-Armor fire.

[14.12] Anti-Armor fire by the Phasing Player is
directed at an entire adjacent hex (not specific
target units) occupied by Enemy units. Anti-armor
fire by the non-Phasing Player is directed against
any Phasing Armor Class units assaulting the hex.
Units that are in a hex at which Anti-Armor fire is
directed that have Retreated Before Assault are af-
fected by Anti-Armor fire (although they may not
use Anti-Armor fire against Enemy units) and they
may not be withheld from the effects of Anti-
Armor fire.

[14.13] Any artillery unit with an Anti-Armor
Rating that is in a Back position (see Case 12.1)
may not participate in (nor is it affected by) Anti-
Armor fire. Anti-Armor guns are always Forward
when firing.

[14.14] Artillery units used in an Anti-Armor role
have an automatic Vulnerability Rating of 2.

[14.2] RESTRICTIONS ON
ANTI-ARMOR COMBAT

[14.21] Units withheld from both Anti-Armor
and Assault Combat are not affected by Anti-
Armor fire (although defending units withheld
may be affected by Close Assault).

[14.22] No hex may be attacked by Anti-Armor
fire more than once in a Combat Segment, but
units from different hexes may direct Anti-Armor
fire into the same Target hex, combining their
Anti-Armor Strength into one total strength.

(14.23] The Player directing the fire may not
know whether the opposing Player actually has
any armor in a hex; that is his problem to deter-
mine. If the ‘‘defending’’ Player has no units with
Armor Protection Ratings in a hex being fired on
by Anti-Armor the ‘‘attacking/firing’’ Player may
reassign up to % (rounded down) of those Anti-
Armor points to Close Assault for that Combat
Segment. Only when there are no defending Ar-
mor units in a Target hex may this occur.

[14.24] Ammunition for
removed as expended.

Anti-Armor fire is

[14.25] Certain terrain influences the effective-
ness of Anti-Armor fire, and these effects are
noted on the Terrain Effects Chart (see Case 8.37)
and in Case 14.3. All column adjustments are
made before firing.

[14.26] Remember, a Player may divide a unit’s
TOE Strength Points between Anti-Armor or
Assault, but he may not use a given TOE Strength
Point for both in the same Segment.

[14.3] TERRAIN EFFECTS ON
ANTI-ARMOR FIRE

[14.31] Certain types of terrain influence the ef-

fectiveness of Anti-Armor fire, while certain types

of hexsides render Anti-Armor fire impossible.

[14.32] Where the defending armor is in a hex
where there is a Terrain Effect, there is a Column
Shift in favor of the Defender; i.e., it lessens the
Anti-Armor firepower of the Attacker. All such
effects are listed on the Terrain Effects Chart
(Case 8.37). E.g., if units in a Rough Terrain hex
are fired on by Anti-Armor Fire worth nine Actual
Anti-Armor Strength Points the combat is resolv-
ed in the eight column of the Anti-Armor CRT
because of the one column shift.

[14.33] The effects of terrain (including fortifica-
tions) are not cumulative; the defending Player
must choose the best terrain. However, the effects
of terrain across a hexside are in addition to those
within the hex.

[14.34] No Anti-Armor fire may be directed from
or against Phasing TOE Strength Points assaulting
through Ridges that are not crossed by tracks or
roads, or down a Slope hexside uncrossed by a

21

Road or Track, or down an Escarpment uncrossed
bya Track.

[14.35] If a terrain effect shifts the Anti-Armor
Strength Point Row /ower than ‘1’, use the ‘‘0”
row.

[14.4] ASSESSING ANTI-ARMOR
DAMAGE

[14.41] All results on the Anti-Armor CRT (see
Case 14.6) are in Damage Points. Damage Points
are applied to the Armor Protection Ratings of
any Armor TOE Strength Points in the hex being
fired upon,

14.42] The Armor Protection Rating is ,the
number of Damage Points that Point can absorb
before it is destroyed. All units comprising Points
with an Armor Protection Rating may be affected
by anti-tank fire and thus take losses because of it.

[14.43] The Player undergoing Anti-Armor fire
must remove at /eastas many TOE Strength Points
as are affected by absorbing Damage Points.
Thus, armor units with higher Armor Protection
Ratings can absorb more Damage Points and are
thus harder to destroy.

Example: The Commonwealth Player fires five
Actual Anti-Armor Strength Points into a hex
containing six TOE Points of Italian M/11’s and
three TOE Points of M/13’s. The Commonwealth
Player rolls a 35 on the dice and earns seven
Damage Points. The Axis Player must remove
enough TOE Strength Points to absorb at least
seven Damage Points. He therefore destroys one
TOE point of M/13 (3 Armor Protection Rating)
and two M/11’s, (2 Armor Protection times 2 = 4)
to cover the necessary seven point absorbtion.

all il
1 ei

1)
12Laner Xi(M)
Spit 133/Littorio

[14.44] Armor losses may be taken from any units
with an Armor Protection Rating in the target hex,
regardless of whether they were assigned to Anti-
Armor or Close Assault. However, Armor units
withheld from both types of combat are not af-
fected by Anti-Armor Fire (see Case 13.28).

[14.45] Damage Points in excess of those
necessary to destroy a//l armor units in a hex are ig-
nored.

[14.46] Destroyed Tanks are noted with
Destroyed Tank Markers, which cannot move but
may be retrieved during the Repair Segment.
Players should record precisely what each
Destroyed Tank marker represents (see Case 14.5).

[14.47] Self-propelled guns may absorb anti-
armor Damage Points at a rate equal to their Ar-
mor Protection Rating plus their Vulnerability
Rating (modified if necessary if the point is engag-
ing in anti-armor fire, etc.)

[14.48] If the owning Player’s only TOE Strength
Points in the hex (assaulting or defending against
assault) that could be affected by anti-armor fire
are halftracks (i.e., certain motorized axis leg in-
fantry units), the halftracks double their Armor
Protection Rating. Note that losses of halftracks
involve not only the infantry TOE Strength Point
but its transporting Truck Point(s) as well.

[14.5] CAPTURING ENEMY
DESTROYED TANKS

[14.51] Friendly Players may capture (and repair)

Enemy Tank Units (only destroyed tanks may be

captured; all other destroyed vehicles are removed

immediately).

[14.52] If an Enemy Player enters a hex contain-
ing a Destroyed Tank Marker, and there are no
other Friendly combat units in that hex, the
Enemy must decide immediately whether to per-
manently eliminate the Points or thenceforth con-
sider them captured.

[14.53] Captured Destroyed Tanks may be moved
three hexes in any direction by the capturing
Player at the instant of capture. The three hexes
may not include Enemy units or Enemy ZOC’s;
nor may they include impassable terrain.

[14.54] Except for 14.53, Destroyed Tanks are
treated like any other unit marked for possible
Repair. In the Phasing Player’s Repair Phase they
may be towed to a Repair Facility for
Maintenance.

[14.55] Players should note that there is a subtle
difference between capturing Destroyed Tanks
and capturing Broken down Vehicles. Consult
Section 21.5 for a discussion of this.

[14.6] ANTI-ARMOR COMBAT

RESULTS TABLE
(see Charts and Tables)

[15.0] CLOSE ASSAULT

GENERAL RULE:

Close Assault is the last step of the Combat pro-
cedure. In Close Assault, the Phasing Player is the
attacker and the non-Phasing Player is the
defender. The Phasing Player may assault any ad-
jacent Enemy-occupied hex, within the terrain
restrictions for Close Assault. Close Assault
resolution involves an Assault Differential, in
which the Close Assault Points of the Defender are
subtracted from those of the Attacker; results are
expressed in Casualties (either losses or prisoners)
plus Engaged and Retreat results. The Assault Dif-
ferential may be modified by terrain, morale, and
the effects of Combined Arms. Close Assault ex-
pends ammunition for both sides. A form of
modified Close Assault — the Probe — is discuss-
ed in Case 15.9. In Close Assault, the Phasing
Player is always attacking (or assaulting), the non-
Phasing Player is defending against the assault.

PROCEDURE:

Each Player totals his Actual Close Assault Points
(either Offensive or Defensive, depending on
whether he is Phasing or non-Phasing) involved in
each separate Close Assault. The non-Phasing
(defending) Player then subtracts his Actual Close
Assault Points from the Offensive Actual Close
Assault Points of the Phasing (attacking) Player,
obtaining an Assault Differential (a positive or
negative number, or a zero). This Diffrential is
then modified by any terrain effects, morale con-
siderations, and/or difference in unit organiza-
tional size between opposing forces. The Phasing
Player then consults the Adjusted Assault Dif-
ferential and rolls two dice, reading the dice se-
quentially: the large die is read first, then the small
die so that a large die roll of 6 and a small die roll
of 3 is 63. The non-Phasing Player does the same,
and both consult the Close Assault Combat
Results Table to determine what losses, if any,
have occurred. Such losses, as well as any other
results, are taken immediately before proceeding
to the next hex’s Close Assault.

CASES:

[15.1] WHICH UNITS MAY
PARTICIPATE IN
CLOSE ASSAULT

[15.11] All units which possess a Close Assault

Rating may use their ratings to aid in either Offen-
sive Assault or Defense Against Assault. (Units
without Ratings may also participate, even though
they add nothing to the point total; see Case
15.17.)

[15.12] Pinned units and units retreated before
assault into a hex under Close Assault attack may
not add their Ratings to Defensive Close Assault.
However, the TOE strengths of sucvh defending
units are considered for purposes of determining
casualties vis a vis the number of TOE Strength
Points in a hex, a percentage of which will be
eliminated. This pertains only to non-Phasing
defending units.

[45.13] Guns that are Back are not affected by
Close Assault unless there is an Overrun situation
(see Case 15.86). Guns that are Forward may par-
ticipate in Offensive or Defensive Close Assault,
but their Vulnerability Ratings may be affected
(see Case 12.18).

[15.14] Only those units committed to Close
Assault (either Offense or Defense) may add their
Ratings to the total Assault Ratings. However,
certain non-Phasing units may be affected by
results even though they do not participate (see
Cases 15.12, and 15.15).

[15.15] Units that are out of ammunition may not
Close Assault, either offensively or defensively.
However, as in Case 15.12, such units are con-
sidered when determining percentage losses if they
are non-Phasing defending units. Phasing units
that are out of ammunition are simply ignored. If
all non-Phasing, defending units in a hex are out
of ammunition for Close Assault purposes, and
such units are Assaulted, they automatically Sur-
render en masse (i.e., every unit in the hex Sur-
renders).

[15.16] A given Phasing unit may split its TOE
Strength Points and make one Close Assault with
some Points and another with the rest, or simply
withhold a portion from any Offensive Close
Assault. A non-Phasing Player may withhoid in-
dividual TOE Strength Points, too, but, unlike
Phasing units, these Points are considered in deter-
mining percentage losses. Note: The same hex may
never be Close Assaulted more than once per
Combat Segment.

(15.17] Units with Close Assault Ratings in paren-
theses may use those ratings in combat only if they
occupy a hex that is unoccupied by combat units.
Such units do not include their TOE Strength for
determining losses when they occupy a hex with
combat units un/ess the ‘‘losing’’ Player so wishes.
In such a case, units with parenthesized ratings
may be used to absorb losses but may not absorb
more than 25% of such losses. Note that if a Phas-
ing unit Close Assaults two hexes in the same Close
Assault at the same time, and one of the hexes con-
tains solely a unit with parenthesized Defensive
Close Assault Rating, that defending unit may use
its parenthesized rating in that combat.

[15.18] In a Close Assault involving only non-
Phasing units with only parenthesized Close
Assault Ratings, if the attacking force has a Raw
Offensive Close Assault strength at least three
times the defending parenthesized units’ Raw
Defensive Close Assault strength the following
two effects apply:

® The attacking (Enemy) force ignores the first
20% losses it receives from the Close Assault;
and;

If the defending parenthesized units receive a
Close Assault result of Casualties of 20% or
greater, any TOE Strength Points remaining
after losses are assessed are captured (if the
Enemy forces survive).

eo

Thus, an AA/Flak unit, for example, may be able

to hold off a small Enemy detachment, but it will
most likely be overrun by anything larger.

[15.2] HOW CLOSE ASSAULT OCCURS

[15.21] Phasing units with Offensive Close
Assault Ratings may Close Assault any Enemy
units in adjacent hexes, unless Assault is pro-
hibited by terrain (see Case 15.3). Units assigned
to Anti-Armor may sot participate in Close
Assault (however, see Case 14.23).

[15.22] The Phasing Player announces which
hexes he is assaulting, and both Players determine
their respective total Points, The Phasing Player
states whether his attack constitutes a Close
Assault or a Probe (see Case 15.9), and then each
individual assault is resolved sequentially, with
results being taken as they occur.

[15.23] An Enemy-occupied hex may be Close
Assaulted or Probed only once per Combat Seg-
ment, regardless of the number of units in that
hex. The Phasing Player may not attack some of
the units in that hex with one group and some
others with another group.

[15.24] As many units from as many hexes as are
adjacent to an Enemy-occupied hex may attack
that hex, terrain permitting. Furthermore, a Phas-
ing unit may Close Assault more than one hex at
the same time, as long as the assaulted hexes are all
adjacent to both the hex from which the assault in-
itiates as well as adjacent to each other. The units
that may participate are listed in Case 15.1.

{15.25] Any number of TOE Strength Points
from a unit may be assigned to a given Close
Assault (see Case 15.16); however, if the units
making a given Close Assault have committed less
than 50% of their available TOE Strength Points,
that Close Assault is automatically considered a
Probe and not a Close Assault. You must Close
Assault with 50% or more of your available
strength (although some of those Points may be
directed elsewhere) to attack with a normal Close
Assault (see Section 16.0).

Example: A unit with a TOE Strength of 7 uses 2
Points to assault Hex A and | Point to assault Hex
B, withholding the other Point because of am-
munition problems. Neither assault is a full Close
Assault; both are Probes. If he used 3 Points
against Hex A instead of 2, both would be con-
sidered Full Assaults, as he would have used at
least 50% of his available strength somewhere.

{15.26] Each Player determines which of his units
are participating in a given Close Assault. Each
Player then determines his Actual Close Assault
Strength Points, as stated in Case 15.4. The defen-
ding, non-Phasing Player now subtracts his total
from that of the attacking, Phasing Player to
achieve the Basic Assault Differential. Thus, if the
Attacker has 6 points and the Defender eight, the
Basic Assault Differential would be — 2.

[15.27] The Basic Assault Differential is now ad-
justed, where necessary, for Terrain Effects (Case
15.3), Morale (Case 15.6), or Units Size Differen-
tial (Case 15.5). These effects result in an adjust-
ment of the Differential Co/umn (not the Differen-
tial number) either one way or the other, and the
cumulative effect of all these upon the Assault Dif-
ferential produces an Adjusted Assault Differen-
tial, which is then used to determine the results of
the Assault. Consult the Procedure, Section 15.0.
Remember, the two dice are read sequentially (6
and 2= 62) not mathematically (6 and 2 = 8) in As-
sault Combat.

[15.28] In Close Assault (and Probe) only, if one
Player has fewer than 5 Raw Assault Points, he is
considered to have zero Close Assault Points, and
the Differential is determined from that figure. If
each Player has fewer than 10 Raw Strength
Points, the Raw Assault Strength Points are used
as if they were Actual Assault Strength Points (see
also Case 15.51).

[15.29] There is a possibility that one or both
Players do not allocate any units to Assault. In
such cases the following occurs:

° If the Defender/Non-Phasing Player, for any
reason, allocates no units to an Assault ail his
units in that hex automatically retreat three
hexes and earn three Disorganization Points
(as if it had taken 30% losses) in addition to
any DP’s earned by the move.

® If the Attacker/Phasing Player does not al-
locate any units to Assault there is no Assault;
it is ignored. This can occur only under Case
10.31 et seq;

(18.3] TERRAIN EFFECTS
ON CLOSE ASSAULT

[15.31] The terrain which a defending unit oc-
cupies, or which an attacking unit has to cross,
may increase or decrease the differential in favor
of the attacker/Phasing Player. Players should
consult the Terrain Effects Chart (Case 8.37) fora
complete list of all effects on Assault combat.

[15.32] The terrain in a hex occupied by a unit is
defending against full Close Assault or Probe
either has vo effect on the Differential (e.g., Clear
Terrain or Sand/Gravel Terrain) or it will decrease
the Differential vis a vir the Attacker by a specific
number of columns on. the Assault Differential
Combat Results Table. Thus a unit defending ina
Mountain hex against a Close Assault in which the
Basic Assault Differential is + 4 will be Assaulted
in the + 1 column, because there is a three column
shift in favor of the Defender. (Players should
note that a unit defending in a Salt Marsh hex
shifts the column one in favor of the Attacker.)

[15.33] Assaults across certain types of hexsides
also decrease or increase the Differential vis a vis
the Attacker/Phasing Player; e.g., a unit attack-
ing through a Wadi hexside has its Attack Dif-
ferential decreased by one, in addition to any
changes for the hex the defender is in. If any units
are attacking through a given hexside, the Dif-
ferential is adjusted as if a// units were attacking
through that hexside.

{415.34] Certain terrain prohibits full Close
Assaults or Probes by certain types of units.
Motorized units may never assault up an Escarp-
ment, even if it is crossed by a Track. (You may, of
course, take your infantry out of the Trucks and
then Assault.) Motorized units may not assault
units defending in Salt Marshes. Any combat unit
in the Zone of Control of an Enemy unit which it
cannot attack must be retreated one hex, unless
some other unit attacks that Enemy unit.

{15.35] Terrain effects on Close Assault are
cumulataive, with one exception. The defender
may benefit from only one type of hexside (15.33)
unless a unit is actually assaulting through a hex-
side which contains two types of terrain. The latter
is quite rare, occurring mostly down in the
southern areas of the game-map where some of the
wadis run along slope’ hexsides. (See
B5810-B5809).

Example: A unit in a Level Two Fortification ina

Rough Terrain hex being assaulted through a
Ridge hexside would shift the Assault Differential
six columns in favor of the Defender: two for the
Fortification, two for the Rough Terrain, and two
for the Ridge hexside. (This is obviously a good
position, one that should be assaulted only after
being softened up by Barrage and Air Bombard-
ment).

[15.36] Assaults down slopes or down escarp-
ments benefit the attacker. (See Case 8.37, Terrain
Effects Chart). If a unit is being attacked through
both an up slope and a down slope hexside (this is
quite possible in some areas of the game-map), the
benefit to the attacker is offset by the benefit to the
defender. Thus a unit defending in a hex that is
assaulted through a down slope hex (+1) and an
up-Escarpment hex (~3) would have an adjust-
ment of —2 (~3 +1 = ~2) in favor of the
defender.

[15.4] COMBINED ARMS EFFECT
ON ASSAULT

The term ‘‘Combined Arms”? is used to describe
the mutual support of tanks and infantry. Tanks
(and tanks only — not recce or self-propelled ar-
tillery, etc.) must be supported by an equal
number of infantry to be completely effective.
Thus, for each TOE Strength Point of tanks
engaging in Close Assault, there must be an equal
number of TOE Strength Point of infantry,
machinegun, or heavy weapons units engaging in
that Close Assault from the same hex. For every
one to three TOE Strength Points of unsupported
tanks, the Actual Close Assault Strength of the
tanks is reduced by one, Thus, if two TOE Points
of tanks, each with a Close Assault rating of 7 are
assaulting unsupported, the Actual Close Assault
Strength is reduced to zero. If there were four un-
supported tank TOE Strength Points, their Actual
Close Assault Strength would be reduced to two.
In no case may the reduction be more than four
Actual Assault Points. This applies both offen-
sively and defensively.

[15.5] EFFECT OF ASSAULTING FORCE
ORGANIZATIONAL SIZE
ON CLOSE ASSAULT

Regardless of the Basic Assault Differential, the
organizational size (battalion, division, etc.) has
an effect on the relative strength in an assault. The
greater disparity between the two opposing forces
in terms of size of organization, the greater the
benefit (in terms of a Column Shift on the Assault
Differential Combat Results Table) to the larger
unit. This is another rule that reflects the effects of
organization and combined arms.

[15.51] If, regardless of the Basic Close Assault
Differential, one side has at least twice the number
of Raw Close Assault Strength Points as the other,
the superior side adjusts the Assault Differential
on the Combat Results Table two columns (not
numbers) in its favor.

Example: 24 Raw Close Assault Strength Points (2
Actual) assaults 12 Raw Close Assault Strength
Points (or 1 Actual}. Normally, the differential
(not taking into account any other effects) would
be +1. However, because the attacker has twice
the Raw strength of the defender, he would assault
on the +3 Column. This adjustment always ap-
plies, regardless of any other adjustment to the
differential (exception: Case 15.54).

[15.52] If the /argest (regardless of number of
units involved) unit in terms of organization of
one side in an assault is bigger than the largest unit
organization on the other side there will be a col-
umn shift benefitting the side with the larger unit.
Unit equivalents apply here (see Case 9.2).

23

24

[15.53] The column adjustments for Organiz-
ational Size Difference, always in favor of the
larger unit size, are as follows:

Largest Unit On:

Larger Side Smaller Side Adjustment
Division 3-point 1

Brigade
Division 2-point 2

Brigade
Division Battalion 4
Division Company 8
Any Brigade _ Battalion 2
Any Brigade Company 4
Battalion Company 2

All of the above are equivalents (9.2).

[15.54] There are certain combat units that have
no Defensive Close Assault Ratings (e.g., Com-
monwealth 5.5” howitzers, German 210mm
Howitzers). If such a unit is alone in a hex and is
Close Assaulted by an Enemy unit, such zero-rated
unit is considered to have a Defensive Close
Assault Rating of zero. In addition, two other
adjustments are made: (1) The attacking unit takes
no casualties; and (2) there is a three-column
adjustment in favor of the Attacker, in addition to
any adjustments for 15.53. Case 15.51 does not
apply to this situation.

[15.55] For the purposes of this case a brigade is
attached to a division only if the brigade HQ unit
(counter) is attached to the division. For example,
a Commonwealth infantry division with nine in-
fantry battalions and no infantry brigade head-
quarters attached is a shell in Close Assault. Note
that the two Italian infantry brigade counters (ID
Code ‘‘m’’) represent the entire brigade.

[15.6] EFFECTS OF MORALE
ON CLOSE ASSAULT

The Morale of each side involved in a given Close
Assault will affect the Close Assault Differential.
A complete discussion of Morale is to be found in
Section 17.0.

[15.61] Players first determine their individual
Adjusted Morale Rating for that assault (Case
17.2). The Phasing/Assaulting Player then sub-
tracts the Adjusted Morale Rating of the non-
Phasing/ Defending units from that of the Phasing
units. This Final Adjusted Morale number is the
number by which the Assault Differential Column
will be adjusted. (See Case 15.64).

[15.62] A positive (+) Final Adjusted Morale
Rating adjusts the Assault Differential that
number of columns to the right (in favor of the
Phasing Player/Attacker). A negative (—) Final
Adjusted Morale Rating adjusts the Assault Dif-
ferential that number of columns to the left (in
favor of the non-Phasing/ Defending Player).

[15.63] Players should use the ‘‘largest unit”’ rule,
as espoused in Case 6.27, to determine Morale
Ratings for units with different Morale in the same
assault.

[15.64] Following is an extended example of how
Morale would affect a given Close Assault:

a. The 15th Panzer Division (Morale of +3) and
the Ariete Division (Morale of +1) are.Close
Assaulting the

b. 2nd New Zealand Division (Morale of +1)
with the Ist RNF battalion (Morale of +2) attach-
ed.

c. The Axis Divisions both have a Cohesion Level
of, say, —4, which will be used to adjust their
combined Morale Rating of +2 (both are divi-
sions, so their Morale is combined and divided by
the number of divisions, +3 +1 + 2 = 2), The
Axis Player now uses his Cohesion Level to adjust

his Morale Rating (see Case 17.2). Consulting the
Morale Modification Table (17.4), he rolls a 43 at
—4 Cohesion Level, obtaining a — 2 adjustment to
his Morale. Axis Adjusted Morale is now zero (+2
—2=0).

d. The Commonwealth Morale for the assault
depends on that of the 2 NZ Division, as that is the
largest unit. The 2NZ has a + 1 Morale and, say, a
Cohesion Level of +2. The Commonwealth
Player rolls a 63 on the Morale Modification
Table, so there is no adjustment to the Morale
Rating of +1.

e. As the Axis Morale is zero and the Common-
wealth Morale is +2, the Final Adjusted Morale
Rating is —\ (Attacker minus Defender). There-
fore, any assault will be modified (by Morale) one
column in favor of the defender.

[15.7] HOW TO USE
THE CLOSE ASSAULT
COMBAT RESULTS TABLE

[15.71] The Close Assault Combat Results Table
is a massive Combat Results Table that uses, for
each Player, the roll of two dice added three dif-
ferent ways to determine a great number of results.
It is important to remember that each Player
throws the two dice only once per assault, with one
minor exception (Case 15.73d). Players should
consult the Assault Combat Results Table and
become familiar with it before playing.

[15.72] The columns of the Assault Combat
Results Table are the Assault Differentials (see
Cases 15.26 and 15.27). The rows are percentage
of losses possible. The numbers in the center of the
Combat Results Table are the range of numbers
needed to produce the losses (in the rows) under a
particular differential (the column). There are ad-
ditional results at the bottoms of each column:
Engaged, Retreat (Defender only), and Captured
Possibilities. These are determined from the same
diceroll as determines the losses.

[15.73] The Close Assault Combat Results Table
uses two dice thrown once for each Player to deter-
mine all results as follows:

a. To determine his losses, each Player consults
the Differential on Ais portion of the Combat
Results Table (Attacker or Defender), He then
throws two dice, reading the result sequentially,
the larger die first. Thus a 2 on the large die anda 5
on the small die would be a 25. The Player would
look under the Differential column to find where
the 25 would fall, then look to his left to find his
percentage of losses. Example: The Attacker is
assaulting at +3. He throws a 34 to find his
percentage of loss. Looking under the +3 Dif-
ferential Column in the Attacker’s portion of the
Combat Results Table, we see that 34 falls in the
5% loss row. The Attacker would suffer losses of
5% (see Case 15.8).

b. The same diceroll used in (a) is now used to
determine Engaged or Retreat results. However,
here the dice are added together (3 + 4 = 7).
Engaged results are always found on the At-
tacker’s portion of the Combat Results Table;
Retreats on the Defender’s portion. Thus in the
above example, the same 3 and 4 would now be aa-
ded to produce a 7. As Engaged results (see Case
15.8) occur only on throws of 8, 9, 10 or 12 at that
Differential, the units are not Engaged. However,
if that 3 and 4 were the Defender’s dice roll, the
Defender would have to Retreat one hex (or lose
an additional 10%) as one-hex Retreats occur on
4,5, 6, and 7 at that Differential.

c. Using the same procedure as in (b) above, ad-
ding the dice together, each Player checks (with his
individual diceroll) to see if any of his percentage
losses have been Captured. Still using the +3 col-
umn, there are no Attacking unit Captured possi-
ble in the column, but there are in the +3

Defender Column. However, the 7 would not
result ina Defender Captured, as a diceroll of 2 or
3 is needed to produce Captured units.

d. If a Captured does result, this means that a
percentage of the losses is captured. Thus if the
Defending Player in the example we are using
threw a 1 and a2 (12), he would suffer 20% losses,
some of which would be Captured (the ‘‘3’’ of 1 +
2 = 3). When a Captured results, the Player
throws one more die and consults the Prisoners
Captured Results Table (15.89). In this case, if the
Defender threw a 4, 50% of all his losses rounded
up (the 20% of his force) would have been Cap-
tured by the Attacker.

[15.74] If, for some reason, botha Retreat and an
Engaged result occurs in the same Close Assault,
the Retreat takes priority, and the Engaged result
is ignored.

[18.75] The Attacker and the Defender each roll
two dice to determine their results. Both Players
use the same Differential column, but they each
use their own section of the Combat Results Table.

[15.76] If the diceroll produces a zero loss result,
Engaged or Retreat results may still occur.

{15.77] The +11 to +17 et seq columns of the
Assault Combat Results Table comprise the Over-
run section of the Combat Results Table. Overrun
is not a voluntary action (as in most games). Over-
run in CNA indicates that the Attacker has amass-
ed such overwhelming strength that he has broken
through the defensive line of the Defender, wreak-
ing comparable losses and enabling him to reach
and possibly destroy many of the defender’s guns
(see Cases 15.84 and 15.86). In addition, when
Overrun, all Defender losses are rounded up.

[15.78] The Assault Combat Results Table is a
large and seemingly unwieldy Table. However, it is
not difficult to work with, and once the Players
understand the mechanics of the different dicerolls
and the method of determining losses, they will
find that the Assault Combat Results Table pro-
duces an unusually wide variety of results.

[15.79] Close Assault Combat Results Table
(see Charts and Tables)

[15.8] DETERMINING CASUALTIES

Eng

[15.81] An Engaged result means that all units in-
volved in that assault are locked in combat. There
are extended Capability Point penalties for an
Engaged unit leaving an Enemy ZOC (see Case
8.6). Players should place an Engaged marker on
all units affected to indicate their status. Engaged
markers are removed at the end of the Operations
Stage. (Players should note that all units that had
assault and are still adjacent are in Contact, if they
are not Engaged.)

[15.82] A Retreat of a specific number of hexes
means that the affected units (including any units
in that hex withheld from combat for any reason,
such as Pinned or out of ammo) must move a
minimum of that number of hexes away from the
Enemy unit inflicting the Retreat. They must end
the Retreat at least that number of hexes away and
should follow the path of least resistance in the
direction of their nearest Supply Dump or City.
For each hex of mandated Retreat that units can-
not or chooses not to Retreat those units suffer an
additional 10% loss. Retreats cost Capability
Points. Units in major cities (or retreated into a
major city) may ignore retreat results (or the rest
of any retreat result).

[15.83] Percentage Losses are determined in the
following manner:

a. The Player affected determines the percentage

—S

loss from the Assault Combat Results Table then
b. Totals all Raw Combat Assault strength Points
involved in the assault. The Defending/non-
Phasing Player would add to. this total the Raw
Assault Strength Points of any Pinned or
previously retreated units in the hex. In an Over-
run, a/l Defensive units withheld for any reason
are added in.

c. Multiply the percentage of loss times the Total
Raw Strength Points. The Attacker rounds up to
the nearest whole number, while the Defender
rounds down (but see Case 15.77). Thus a 35.1
would be 36 points for the Attacker but 35 for the
Defender. In an overrun, 1.1 Defender Points
would equal 2. Defenders should remember to add
in any loss percentage they must take for hexes not
retreated (see Case 15.82).

d. The affected Player must now remove enough
TOE Strength Points to absorb the Raw Points
lost. Thus one TOE Strength Point of 2 Defensive
Close Assault Ratings infantry would absorb two
Raw Points. Remember that some units have dif-
ferent Close Assault Ratings for Attack and
Defense, and that the Attacking Player uses Of-
fensive Close Assault Points, etc. (See Case 15.84).
Only those units participating in the assault or, for
the Defender, that were pinned or withheld may be
used to absorb losses of Raw Points.

e. All losses must be applied to units in different
hexes (if units in more than one hex are attacked or
involved in an attack) proportionally. Example: If
50% of the Raw Strength Points used by the Phas-
ing Player in a Close Assault are in one hex and
50% are in a second hex, any losses would be
divided evenly between both hexes.

[15.84] Guns (i.e., Artillery, Anti-Tank units,
etc.) take losses in Close Assault under the follow-
ing circumstances:

a. If the Defending units are Overrun all defen-
ding guns, whether Forward or Back, add their
Defensive Close Assault Points (if any) to the total
for determination of percentage lost. Such units
may be used to absorb losses as in Case 15.83.

b.. Guns that are Forward are subject to losses,
based on their Vulnerability Rating. The affected
Player must remove at least 50% as many Vulner-
ability Points of Forward Guns as he has lost Raw
Strength Points in that Assault, with the provision
that if at least one Raw Close Assault Point is lost
then at least one Vulnerability Point must be
removed (see Case 14.42; Vulnerability uses the
same mechanics as Armor Protection). AA/Flak
units are not affected by this rule.

c. In addition to (a), if there is an Overrun situa-
tion, all defending guns are subject to Vulner-
ability losses, as in (b). Vulnerability losses are
taken after percentage losses (a).

(15.85] If, as a result of an Assault, a Player has
some of his TOE Strength Points Captured (see
Case 15.73) he takes that percentage of his losses
as determined in Cases 15.83 and 15.84 and con-
verts them to prisoners or captured equipment,
which are then turned over to the Enemy Player.
Captured percentages are always rounded up-
wards.

[15.86] Determine Captured TOE Strength Points
as follows:

a. First determine what TOE Strength Points (and
concurrently what units) have been eliminated by
combat; then

b. Take the Captured percentage of those TOE
Strength Points (a);

c. Playerse may use any type of TOE Strength
Points to satisfy the Captured percentage,
remembering that the percentage is taken of Raw
Assault Points (either Offensive or Defensive,
depending on the situation), not TOE Strength
Points (see Case 15.83 for the mechanics of taking
losses).

d. Captured infantry-type becomes Prisoner
Points, one Prisoner Point for each TOE Strength
Point. Captured Guns and/or Tanks may be taken
and used by the Enemy as they see fit (see Section
28.0, on Prisoners).

[15.87] If any Player’s losses amount to 30% or
more of the TOE Strength Points committed to
that assault (whether such losses came from com-
mitted units or not), all of that Player’s units in-
volved gain three Disorganization Points. It is
faintly possible that both Players could be so af-
fected, and this is allowed.

[15.88] A Player may always voluntarily Sur-
render his units, rather than have them
slaughtered. Furthermore, units. out of Ammuni-
tion or with a —17 or worse Cohesion Level that
are assaulted automatically Surrender (see also
Case 17.25).

[15.89] Prisoners Captured Results Tables
(See Charts and Tables)

[15.9] PROBES

(15.91] A Probe is any Close Assault conducted
(by the Phasing Player) with less than 50% of his

- available TOE Strength Points participating in

that — or another — attack (see Case 10.31 and
15.25).

[15.92] A Probe may be conducted with any
number of units, within the restrictions of Case
15.91.

[15.93] All combat results are the same for both
sides, with the exception that all Engaged results
are ignored, and the units in the Probe — both of-
fense and defense — are notin Contact.

[15.94] The ‘‘Probing’’ Player does not have to
announce that his assault is a Probe until after the
assault is over. Remember, all units are assigned to
Close Assault prior to Anti-Armor Combat.

[15.95] Ifal/ Probing units are Recce-type units,
any losses from Close Assault to the Probing units
are reduced by 10%.

[15.96] If, in a Probe, the Final Adjusted Dif-
ferential is worse than —3, the units defending
against the Probe do not use any Capability Points
to defend against such Probe.

AN EXAMPLE OF COMBAT

The following is an extended example of a hypo-
thetical combat. It should clarify much of the
preceding sections, which rules, until actually ap-
plied, may seem somewhat convoluted and
mystical.

The Commonwealth Player, in Hex ‘‘A’’, has an
Armored Brigade Group containing one battalion
of Stuarts (TOE Strength of 8), one battalion of
Crusader II’s (TOE Strength of 7), one motorized
infantry battalion (TOE Strength of 5), an Anti-
Tank Regiment of 2-pounders (TOE Strength of
6), and a regiment of 25-pounder Artillery (TOE
Strength of 6). The brigade has a Basic Morale of
+1 anda Cohesion Level of — 3. The terrain in the
hex is Rough.

The Axis Player has two forces, one in Hex ‘‘B”’
and one in Hex ‘“‘C’’, In Hex ‘‘B’’ is a Kampf-
gruppe (Brigade) consisting of a battalion of 8
TOE Points of PzIII Specials (Tanks), two bat-
talions of infantry (each with TOE Strength of 7),
and a regiment of 105mm Guns (TOE Strength of
6). In the adjacent hex (‘‘C’’) is a small force con-
sisting of one infantry battalion (TOE Strength of
7) and a battery of 105mm Guns (TOE Strength of
4). The Axis Basic Morale is +2, with a Cohe-
sion Level of —2. The Axis Player’s units are all
German, and he is the Phasing Player. He attacks.
(Note that the given Cohesion Levels include the
Capability Points expended for the at-

tack/defense.) The Axis Player, wishing to get full
use from his two Artillery units, places both of
them in Forward position. The Commonwealth
Player, having enough Anti-Tank strength with
his two tank battalions and anti-tank regiment,
decides not to use his 25-pounders in an Anti-Tank
role and places them Back, for protection. Both
Players now choose their targets for Barrage. The
Axis Player, noting the Commonwealth anti-tank
strength (he knows there are two tank battalions
and two gun units) decides to direct his full Bar-
rage against one of the Tank Battalions. He thus
totals his Barrage Points which can be combined
because his Guns are Forward, (ten 105’s — Bar-
rage Rating 9 — at a TOE Strength of 10 = 90
Raw Barrage Points) and finds he has 9 Actual
Barrage Points. The Commonwealth Player, with
six 25-pounders (Barrage Rating of 8) will use all 5
Actual Barrage Points (6 x 8 = 48, or 5) against
one battalion of infantry (as he fears the Assault
more than the Anti-Armor fire — a guess, really,
as to the Axis intentions — and the Infantry unit is
an easier target). Both Barrage simultaneously,
adjusting for terrain (the Axis units are all in Clear
Terrain.)

The Axis Player Barrages, using the ‘‘7,8’’ column
on the Barrage Table (adjusting from ‘‘9,10”’
because of the Rough Terrain). He needs a roll of
36 or lower to pin the Tank battalion and he
throws a 25. The result is that his target, which
turns out to be the battalion of Stuarts, is Pinned
and may not participate in any further combat.
The Axis Player throws again rolling a ‘‘6’’. This
results in two Truck Points destroyed although the
infantry they are transporting is unharmed. The
Commonwealth Barrage, on the ‘‘5,6”’ row results
in No Effect when the Commonwealth Player rolls
a 61. Note that no defending trucks are present so
no second roll is necessary. Both Players now
deduct any Ammunition expended.

The Commonwealth Player decides not to Retreat
Before Assault with any of his units, and the
Players now assign their units to either Anti-
Armor or Close Assault (or nothing). The Axis
Player assigns five points (of his 8 available) of his
PzIII Specials to Anti-Armor and all three of his
infantry battalions to Close Assault. He does not
use his Artillery for Assault as he wishes to save
ammunition. The Commonwealth Player -assigns
his Infantry battalion to Defend against the
Assault and puts his Crusaders into that Assault.
His Stuarts are pinned and cannot participate, but
he does use his Anti-Tank guns for Anti-Armor
Fire. His artillery is Back and may not participate
in either Anti-Armor or Close Assault.

The Axis Player has 3 Anti-Armor Points (5 TOE
Points of PzI[ISpec. with an Anti-Tank rating of 5
x 6 = 30, or 3 Actual). The Commonwealth
Player has only 2 (his 6 TOE Points of 2-pounder
Anti-Tank, rating of 4 = 24, or 2 Actual). If his
Stuarts had not been Pinned, they could have aid-
ed his Anti-Armor effort. Both Players now fire
simultaneously. The Axis Player rolls a 51, and
the, result on the Anti-Armor CRT is a ‘‘4’’. This
means that the Commonwealth Player must
remove enough Crusader TOE Points to absorb 4
Armor Protection Points. (He cannot use his
Stuarts as they have been pinned and do not enter
into Anti-Armor loss calculation). As Crusader
II’s have an Armor Protection Rating of 3, he
must remove 2 TOE Points of Crusaders to absorb
the loss. Likewise, the Commonwealth Player fire
Anti-Armor, rolls a 55, resulting in a 3. Each Pzlill
Special has an Armor Rating of 4, so the Axis
Player removes 1 TOE of PzIII Specials (taking
them from those tanks assigned to Anti-Armor,
rather than upset his Assault power.)

Both Players now determine their Assault Dif-
ferentials. The Attacking Axis has 42 Raw Points

25

